{1} The Reactor #1 raid
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:| Potion (x2), Phoenix Down, Potion, Restore Materia,             ||
||          | Assault Gun (Boss Reward), Potion.                              ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

After the epic introduction you can control our spikey-haired main character.
Before anything, search the body of the first knocked-down guard twice to find
two Potions.

Note: You can actually grab these two Potions from either guard, or two from one
      of the guards. It doesn't matter, since two is all you'll get.

We're assuming you know the controls, which can also be found in the instruction
manual. First-timers would do well to press the select button, which places
cursors all over the screen. These tell you which way to go, and where you are.
Cloud, our main character, gets a big scary finger hanging over his spikey hair
and exits are marked with red triangles. Climbable objects such as ladders are
indicated by green arrows. If you are a first-timer, I suggest you read section
{0} that covers the controls and some basic hints.

Run down the station tracks and two guards initiate a fight. Your regular
attack will easily do them in, so don't waste your MP on these .. MP's. Talk to
your teammates in the next screen and you'll get to rename Cloud (if you feel
like it) and Barret. Keep in mind that you'll never be able to change a 
character's name after selecting it, so choose wisely or simply stick with the
default names.

After the dialog, head north to follow your team members. You'll likely run into
random encounters at this point, so swipe them off your back as you head into
the reactor. Once inside the reactor, talk to Barret who joins your ranks.

Tip: Head into the Menu and select 'Order'. You'll want to select Barret twice,
     which will put him in the back row. Since Barret has a gun-arm, he'll be
     to hit enemies for the same damage, while only receiving half the damage
     from physical attacks.

Speak with Biggs and Jessie, who'll gladly open the doors for you. A Phoenix
Down can be looted from a box in the southern room, after which you'll have to
talk to Jessie once more to open the elevator doors.

Press the button and exit the elevator again after the dialog between Barret and
Cloud. Follow Jessie downstairs and go through the door. Walk to Jessie for a
quick tutorial on how to climb ladders (which are marked with green triangles,
if you used the SELECT button before). The blue potion lying around is.. well,
it's a Potion. Climb down the second ladder, walk over some pipes, and make your
way to a final ladder.

It is recommended to save your game at the Save Point, which looks like a
rotating quotation mark. Generally, Save Points appear before bosses or other
moments when 'something' is going to happen. Head down to the next screen, grab
the green marble (now formally known as a Restore Materia) and fiddle with the
valve. Looks like it's time for your first boss fight.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Guard Scorpion (Level: 12)          |Weakness: Lightning                |
|HP: 800                                   |Nullifies: Poison, Gravity         |
|Exp: 100                                  |-----------------------------------|
|AP: 10                                    |Status Effects Weaknesses:         |
|Gil: 100                                  |Slow, Stop                         |
|Drops: Assault Gun(100%)                  '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Search Scope    [1 Enemy, Selects target for next attack]            |
|         Rifle           [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 41 Base Damage]                  |
|         Scorpion's Tail [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 71.75 Base Damage]               |
|         Tail Laser      [All Enemies, Phys Atk, 123 Base Damage]             |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: Guard Scorpion is a mechanical enemy, making it very vulnerable     |
|--------- against lightning-based attacked. Therefore, have Cloud use Bolt    |
|continuously throughout the battle, while Barret keeps firing regularly by    |
|using physical attacks.                                                       |
|                                                                              |
|The Guard Scorpion follows a set pattern. It will first use its Search Scope  |
|'attack', which is nothing more than a scan for its next target. After this it|
|will attack regularly, perform another Search Scope, attack regularly again,  |
|and then raise its tail. It will wait two turns (during which it will counter |
|with a powerful Tail Laser attack if attacked), after which it lowers its tail|
|again. The pattern now repeats. Don't attack the boss when it has its tail    |
|raised; simply wait for the boss to lower it.                                 |
|                                                                              |
|Unleash your Limit Breaks when they come up and keep pounding the boss with   |
|Bolt and physical attacks until it breaks down.                               |
|                                                                              |
|Trivia: Depending on who's alive when Guard Scorpion raises its tail, the     |
|        in-battle dialogue changes. It remains unclear to the player how to   |
|        adequately respond in each scenario.                                  |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

After the battle you'll have 10 minutes to escape from the Reactor 'cause it's
going to blow! Go into the menu and equip Barret with the Assault Gun, which is
better than his initial Gatling Gun.

Note: The timer does NOT stop when the menu is brought up. The only time it'll
stop is when you pause the game during a battle.

Backtrack your way to the screen where you left Jessie. She's sitting in a
crouched position on the lower part of the screen. Walk over and free her foot
that got stuck between the metal bars. Simply return to the elevator after this,
ride it up, talk to Jessie and Biggs to open the doors and get the hell out of
the Reactor #01!

Midgar Sector 1:
----------------
Make your way up the stairs after the scenes. You'll come across the flower girl
that we saw in the intro. You can give different responses, and they will affect
a certain scene later in the game. If you wish to follow a guide that deals with
the different outcomes, check out section {M1.6}.

Don't let the electricity freak you out in the next screen. Do something more
productive instead by picking up the Potion near the exit below, then continue
down south.

Shinra Guards will attack you, but you're given a choice: Fight or Run. Be quick
with deciding, or the game will pick the option that you left the cursor on when
the guards reach you.

After the dialog, follow Jessie and jump over the crates. In the train cabin,
talk to Jessie once again and she'll show you how the trains operate in Midgar.
Have a chat with Barret afterwards.

When you depart, walk up to Barret for a rather quick debriefing. After this,
you're finally given a first bit-sized snack of freedom in the game. You can
talk to the train man and you can - which is even more interesting - exit the
screen on the right to fight monsters in the train graveyard.

<Perfect Game Note 1:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
NOTE: Again I feel I must mention - for those who skip all introductory
      paragraphs - that these Perfect Game Notes do NOT have to be done in order
      to complete the game.  This guide can be followed perfectly to ensure that
      you don't miss anything, without having to do the instructions in these
      perfect game notes.  They are only for perfectionists, and they are
      implemented in the walkthrough to ease them in this tough challenge.

      Please don't feel distracted by these notes if you're not interested in
      this challenge and simply use the guide regularly. As for the actual note:

Head to the train graveyard to the right so you can save up money to buy 99 Iron
Bangles. This can take a very long time, however there *is* a way to slightly
speed it up. Mono Drives (the small floating robots) sometimes drop an Ether.
You can sell this for a whopping of 750 gil! Just pray they drop it, because
it's a rather rare drop. It's not recommended to sell any other items you own
because they aren't as profitable. You need to save 15840 gil to buy 99 Iron
Bangles.. but you'll also get 1500 gil from Barret, and you can also find an
Ether as a treasure. You may also want to set the Battle Speed to the maximum in
the menu. This will cut off a few more minutes per hour. Still, expect this to
take a while.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When you feel like you've had enough fun in the Train Graveyard, follow the rest
of your team to the hideout.


                     Oo=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                     ||   {2} Sector 7: At the hideout    ||           CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:| 1500 Gil, All Materia, Ether.                                   ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

In the next screen, head left like everyone else to proceed with the story.
Otherwise, take a moment and talk to the guy in the upper left corner of the
area to take a look at The Pillar, a large structure that keeps the plate safely
above the slums. Sure is a good thing it's such a solid structure, right?

The hideout is located in a bar called Seventh Heaven. Even through there are
several houses it should be pretty clear which one the hideout is. Talk to
Barret and head inside - we'll go over the other houses later.

Inside the hideout you get to meet (and name) your childhood friend Tifa.
Attempt to go outside after having a little chat with her and Marlene (Barret's
adopted daughter), and Barret will storm inside. Talk to Tifa, then head down.
After a series of scenes you'll receive your salary from Barret: 1500 Gil!

Cloud gets a good night of rest, waking up fresh to depart on a new mission. Go
up and talk to Tifa and Barret. You can choose to take a Materia Tutorial (by
having Cloud explain this to Barret). If you're not familiar with the Materia
system we suggest you follow this tutorial.

Exit the Seventh Heaven and go inside the building on the lower right. There's a
weapon shop here that sells Iron Bangles - a better piece of equipment than the
Bronze Bangle. Buy 3 of them and equip them on all your party members. The shop
doesn't offer much of interest other than the Iron Bangles; You already have an
Assault Gun for Barret and the Grenade is a fairly weak battle item that causes
mild damage.

Should you need an Inn (if you've been training at the train graveyard), talk to
the kid and offer him the minimum of 10 Gil. He'll then allow you to use his
room all the way upstairs for power-naps.

When you head up to the second floor, enter a room known as 'The Beginner's
Hall'. This place can teach you a lot of basic information on the game, and if
you aren't familiar with the subjects it might do you good to glance over them.
Talk to the dog for general information and to the man to get a list of things
you can choose from. Pick up the blue All Materia on the right, as well as the
Ether in the chest that drops down. You can also talk to the guys on the crates
to learn everything related to battles.

The third floor only houses the boy's room (Inn), so pay a visit to the building
on the lower left instead, which is the local Item/Materia store. You don't have
the Fire Materia yet, so it would make an excellent addition to your arsenal.
The other Materia are copies of those you already own, so it's best not to spend
any gil on them right now. As for items, an extra Phoenix Down never killed
anyone and it doesn't hurt to buy two Antidotes either. If you're got any Ethers
left we suggest you sell the majority of your stock as they sell for a whopping
of 750 Gil. Needless to say, this is a lot of money at this stage of the game.

We suggest you pair the Lightning Materia with newly acquired All Materia in
Cloud's equipment, and give Tifa and Barret your remaining Materia. You've now
explored all places of interest except the house to the north. This is the home
of a fellow named Johnny, who used to be a childhood friend of Tifa and Cloud.
When you're ready, hop on the train to initiate the next bombing mission!

                     Oo=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                     ||  {3} The second raid: Reactor #5  ||           CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:| Phoenix Down, Hi-Potion, Ether, Potion, Tent, Ether,            ||
||          | Titan Bangle (Boss Reward).                                     ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

Once inside the train, talk to Tifa. What the...! The alarm goes off! You're
only given 15 seconds to rush to the next cabin, but you still might want to
talk to the guy sitting on the right in the back during the alarm. He'll give
you a Phoenix Down out of appreciation. When you make it to the second cabin,
another timer starts counting down. If you manage to speak with the man on the
lower left you'll be rewarded with a Hi-potion if you tell him 'Yeah'. The third
cabin has a nasty surprise for you: As you rush through it, a pickpocket will
steal an item from you (usually a Potion or Phoenix Down). Quickly run back and
speak with him, telling him 'That's Right' - the bottom option - to get the
stolen item back. Head for the exit and leave the train in the last cabin.

Note: If the team gets caught by failing to make it to the next cabin within the
      time limit, nothing serious happens. You'll find that it's a much longer
      walk through the winding tunnels until you reach the reactor.

You are now in a winding tunnel. The reactor is located to the north, but it's
possible to go down five screens (when you didn't get caught) to find a guarded
door where you can battle Special Combatants that endlessly spawn. It's not an
excellent training spot, and if you feel the need, training is best done through
random encounters in the winding tunnel.

'Hey you! Slow Down!': The Grashstrike enemy (The green bug-like creatures that
often use an attack called Silk - which slows the affected character) will
sometimes drop an interesting item called Spider Web. This item casts Slow on
all enemies, which is interesting to know because Slow works on many bosses. If
you feel like it, try and get a few of these as you won't be able to cast Slow
for a really long time. The chance this item is dropped is about 4.7% per
Grashstrike. Since they tend to come in large groups, the chance per battle is
higher.

When you reach the green laser beams, crawl through the ventilation shaft on the
left side of the tunnel. Barret is kind of big, so the shaft freaks him out.
Keep in mind that it's not possible to ever head back to the tunnels once you
crawl down the shaft.

Grab the Ether and climb down two ladders. In this enormous looking area,
simply climb the long ladder nearby your left. Note that Wedge is on the lookout
in this area as well - say 'hi' if you like - he's located on the left of the
long ladder.

Crawl through another shaft to get to an area with Jessie. Have a quick chat and
grab the slightly concealed Potion on the left. You can ignore the ladder to the
right, which only leads back to the large area. The one on the left brings you
to a catwalk with Biggs, a Tent and a Save Point. As you climb through the hole
you're finally inside Reactor #05.

Things should look awfully familiar from this point onward. Head to the core of
the reactor just like you did in the previous one, and plant the bomb. Backtrack
to the elevator and ride it up. The chest in the next area holds an Ether (or in
other words, 750 Gil). The device on the upper left opens the door, but all
three buttons must be pressed at the same time. Barret and Tifa will always push
the buttons simultaneously, and you need to do the same. Timing is everything!

It might be a good idea to make use of the Save Point after opening the door,
because it's about time for another boss battle - this time with Boss Music!
Guitars!

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Air Buster (Level: 15)              |Weakness: Lightning                |
|HP: 1200                                  |Halves: Fire                       |
|Exp: 180                                  |Nullifies: Earth, Gravity          |
|AP: 16                                    |-----------------------------------|
|Gil: 150                                  |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Drops: Titan Bangle(100%)                 |Slow, Stop                         |
|                                          '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Big Bomber  [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 109.375 Base Damage]                 |
|         Energy Ball [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 65.625 Base Damage]                  |
|         Rear Gun    [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 43.75 Base Damage]                   |
|         Bodyblow    [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 87.5 Base Damage]                    |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: This is the only boss battle with a side attack formation. Cloud is |
|on one side of Air Buster while Barret and Tifa are on the opposite side. This|
|formation gives you a big advantage over Air Buster, who takes 5x the regular |
|damage when attacked in the back. Time your Limit Breaks well and they can do |
|enormous amounts of damage.                                                   |
|                                                                              |
|Air Buster knows two executive programs, Program 1 & 2 Operation. In P1 it    |
|will have access to its Big Bomber attack, although it can only use this      |
|attack 4 times. In P2 it will switch to its less fearsome Energy Ball attack. |
|                                                                              |
|As you might be aware of, you can skip a character's turn with the Triangle   |
|button. Since Air Buster is a mechanical enemy, Bolt deals solid damage. Try  |
|to keep everyone's HP above 150 just in case the Big Bomber attack is used,   |
|which can easily deal over 100 damage.                                        |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

It looks like the team is in trouble! We'd best hope Cloud gets a soft landing..

                     Oo=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                     ||     {4} Aeris the flower girl     ||           CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:| (5 gil - Don't pick it up!), Ether, Cover Materia, Potion,      ||
||----------| Phoenix Down.                                                   ||
|| Other:   | Turtles Paradise Flyer No. 1.                                   ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

Talk to the flower girl and input her name - Aeris. Looks like Cloud fell right
through the church roof! The couple chats for a bit and Cloud agrees to be
Aeris' bodyguard in return for a date. At the same time, Reno from the Turks
steps inside the church with the intention to kidnap Aeris. Make a run for it!

Note: Aeris is placed in the back row by default, which effectively halves all
      her physical attacks. You can place her in the front row and give her the
      newly acquired Titan Bangle you received from Air Buster's battle spoils
      to compensate the loss of defense slightly. You might also want to slap
      the Restore Materia in one of her slots, if you know what I mean.

As you make your way upstairs, Aeris falls down and is chased by the Shinra
Soldiers. Cloud can tell her to fight, run, or to hold on. This last option
allows you push one of the barrels upstairs to dispose of the Shinra soldiers.

All you need to do is push the barrels in the right order: The leftmost first,
the upper barrel second, and the rightmost barrel last. Don't wait too long with
pushing a barrel or Aeris is forced into battle. With her and Cloud rejoined,
exit the church by the hole through the roof.

You'll find yourself in the Sector 5 Slums with a Save Point nearby.  Be aware
of the random encounters in this area, as there are enemies here called Vice
which can steal your equipment. Make sure you kill these thugs as quickly as
possible. The road to Sector 6 (accessed through a hole in the wall on the very
left) is blocked for now, so head up to visit the shopping center of the Sector
5 Slums.

The nearby tube contains a sick guy that really 'are sick fo sho', and he's got
the number #2 tattooed on his arm. It's almost as if someone has been using this
guy to experiment on, wouldn't you think?

The big house in the middle houses two shops: The Materia shop is located on the
left, but it doesn't sell anything new. The Item shop is on the right, which
doesn't sell much worthwhile either. Should you need any Potions, Phoenix
Downs, Antidotes or Tents, this is your haven.

Then there's the door on the far right. Enter and head upstairs. Read the flyer
on the wall, which is the 'Turtles Paradise Flyer No. 1'. These flyers are part
of a sidequest that you can activate much later on in the game. Talk to the
snoring kid and check the locker. Open the hidden drawer, but do NOT take the 5
Gil. If you don't take this now, you'll get a much better reward later.

Lastly, the bus on the upper right part of the screen represents the local
weapon store. If you can afford it, buy 3 Titan Bangles and exit the area on the
right.

Check the beautiful garden before entering Aeris' house in order to collect an
Ether and the Cover Materia. Feel free to make use of the Save Point as well.

Tip: The Cover Materia will have the equipped character protect other members
     from physical attacks. It works best to equip the Cover Materia on someone
     placed in the back row (who takes half the damage of physical attacks).
     Therefore, long range characters such as Barret are ideally given the Cover
     Materia since they're usually in the back row.

After meeting Elmyra, head upstairs to rest. Since Sector 6 is such a dangerous
area it is probably better to leave Aeris out of your problems and go by
yourself, right? When Cloud wakes up, grab the Potion and Phoenix down near the
bed and WALK near the ledge of the stairs to go down. If you only run for an
instant, Aeris will discover that you're awake and she won't let you leave. Once
downstairs, exit the area and backtrack to the hole in the wall that used to be
blocked....only to meet up with Aeris anyhow.

Make your way through Sector 6 until you reach a playground. Cloud and Aeris
spot Tifa on the back of a Chocobo cart and set out to search for her. The cart
was headed for Wall Market, so Tifa is likely to be around there .. somewhere.

                     Oo=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                     || {5} Crossdressing at Wall Market  ||           CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure: | Ether, Phoenix Down, Hyper.                                    ||
||-----------|                                                                ||
|| Key Items:| (Cotton/Satin/Silk Dress), (Blonde Wig/Dyed Wig/Wig),          ||
||           | (Disinfectant/Deodorant/Digestive),                            ||
||           | (Sexy Cologne/Flower Cologne/Cologne),                         ||
||           | (Diamond Tiara/Ruby Tiara/Glass Tiara),                        ||
||           | (Bikini Briefs/Lingerie), Pharmacy Coupon, Member's Card.      ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

Wall Market is quite a big stressful town, so it's a good thing the reggae beat
keeps us at ease. Where could Tifa be at? Inquire at the Honey Bee Inn located
on the lower right of the area to learn that Tifa is likely to be in a place
called Don Corneo's mansion. It sounds like Tifa's been dragged into some sort
of bordel business, which of course can never be good. At least, not for Tifa
anyway!

Head to the far north end of Wall Market and enter Don Corneo's mansion.
Apparently the Don has a strict policy that only girls are allowed to enter.
Aeris is about to rush in on her own before Cloud wisely stops her. She can't go
in all by herself! So .. just how can Cloud enter the mansion alongside Aeris..?
There's only one option .. Cloud has to dress up like a girl!

Note: You can buy Mythril Armlets from the Weapon Store, which is a better piece
      of defense than what you currently have as equipment.

Exit the mansion and head back to the first area of Wall Market. Enter the dress
shop on the immediate left and talk to the person behind the counter. It appears
that the owner of the dress shop can be found at the bar (up north). Inside the
bar, talk to the guy sitting nearby the entrance. Depending on your choice,
he'll make you a different kind of dress.

Soft + Shimmers = Silk Dress (Best Dress)
Soft + Shiny = Satin Dress
Clean = Cotton Dress

Note: Don Corneo can choose Tifa, Aeris or Cloud as his bride for the night.
      Depending on how Cloud looks you can influence his decision. Initially,
      Tifa is always chosen as bride, but by getting better dress items it is
      possible to have Aeris or Cloud get picked by the Don.

Looks like Cloud will also need a wig to mess up that spiky hair of his. Head
back to the dress store to confirm this and head straight to the gym afterwards,
which is located at the northern part of Wall Market.

Speak with Big Bro and you'll roll into a squat challenge. The controls are
explained to you in game: Make sure you don't tap too fast nor too slow, and
make sure you only tap the next button when Cloud has stopped moving or he'll
scratch his head, thus wasting precious time. Your opponent usually has 17
squats, so try and beat that figure. Depending on how you do, you're rewarded
with a wig:

Winning will get you: Blonde Wig. (Best Wig)
A Tie will get you: Dyed Wig.
Losing will get you: Wig.

You'll actually have obtained all mandatory dress items at this point. However,
do you really think the Don will find Cloud an attractive woman? There's most
certainly room for improvement, don't you think?

Either skip the next few paragraphs if you want to continue with the story, or
follow them anyway to witness a couple of hilarious scenes and obtain more Key
Items.

<Perfect Game Note 2:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
It's not possible to get all Key Items in Wall Market. For a Perfect Game, it
makes sense to go for the best possible combination: Silk Dress, Blonde Wig,
Sexy Cologne and Diamond Tiara. Also get the Member's Card and the Bikini
Briefs (see mechanics for an explanation why it is technically the best). Have
Cloud put on some make-up just to make him a picture perfect.

Remember that the Phoenix Down (located in the room of the Don's Lackeys, which
is only accessed initially when Cloud is *not* chosen) can be gotten later on
when you revisit Don Corneo's mansion.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

After getting the Wig it's time to get a cologne of some sorts. Head to the bar
and talk to the woman in the toilet. Looks like she could use some medicine.
Head over to the restaurant (left of the Save Point) and order a meal; Either
the Korean B.B.Q. Plate, Sushi Plate, or Today's Special. They all cost 70 gil.
Be sure to answer with "It was alright", or you won't get the Key Item 'Pharmacy
Coupon' that you'll want.

Head over to the Item Shop. You can select Disinfectant, Deodorant, or Digestive
here for the Coupon. Choose Digestive and give it to the woman on the toilet in
the bar. Depending on what you gave her, she'll give you this in return:

Digestive = Sexy Cologne (Best Cologne)
Deodorant = Flower Cologne
Disinfectant = Cologne

How do you think Cloud looks right now - pretty good for a she-male? We need
something to top it off.. a Tiara! Head over to the Materia Shop, which is north
from the Save Point. The owner is interested in what the vending machine at the
Inn has for sale. Agree to help him out and stay at the Inn near the south
entrance (this costs 10 Gil). In the middle of the night, Cloud'll have the
option to buy something from the vending machine for either 50, 100 or 200 Gil.
The more expensive the better. Head back to the Materia Shop owner and show him
what you got.

200 gil = Diamond Tiara (Best Tiara)
100 gil = Ruby Tiara
50 gil  = Glass Tiara

That's more like it! But .. Cloud may look like a prom queen but he's still
missing underwear and make up. Hmm, just how to fix that? Head all the way south
and talk to the guy on the lower right. He'll give you his 'Member's Card' for
the Honeybee Inn, no questions asked. We might as well sneak in the Honeybee Inn
to see if Cloud can acquire some undies somehow.

Inside the Honeybee Inn, talk to the girl and choose a room. The Lover's Room
(upper right) and the Queen's Room (lower right) are both occupied, but you can
take a peek through the keyhole to view a scene. Move your view through the
keyhole slightly.. what the ... Okay, nevermind! Let's move on! The &$#% Room
(Upper Left) will acquire you Lingerie, and the Group Room (Lower Left) lets you
walk away with Bikini Briefs. We're not about to spoil the adventures of Cloud
and Mukki for you (or any weird scene whatsoever), so choose your pick, sit back
and relax .. Enjoy the show.... I'm getting carried away now....

After either room/scene, head to the upper room and have the left girl put some
make-up on Cloud (see below for the effects). He looks gorgeous now, doesn't he?

The following mechanics summarize who is chosen:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                              Attraction Values:
                              ------------------
   .-----------.----------------------------------------------------------.
   |Type:      |Key Items (and Attraction Value):                         |
   |===========|==================|====================|==================|
   |Dress:     |Cotton Dress  (+1)|Satin Dress     (+3)|Silk Dress    (+5)|
   |Wig:       |Wig           (+1)|Dyed Wig        (+3)|Blond Wig     (+5)|
   |Cologne:   |Cologne       (+1)|Flower Cologne  (+3)|Sexy Cologne  (+5)|
   |Tiara:     |Glass Tiara   (+1)|Ruby Tiara      (+3)|Diamond Tiara (+5)|
   |Underwear*:|Lingerie      (+0)|Mystery Panties*(+0)|Bikini Briefs (+0)|
   |Makeup**:  |97/256 Chance (+1)|96/256 Chance   (+3)|63/256 Chance (+5)|
   '-----------'------------------'--------------------'------------------'
    * Note: Underwear is glitched and therefore does not count towards the
            total Attraction Value. The Mystery Panties item was dummied out
            of the game for unknown reasons.  Lingerie was supposed to give
            a +1 bonus, Mystery Panties a +3 bonus, and Bikini Briefs a +5
            bonus, so Bikini Briefs can still be considered "best".

    **Note: The Attraction Bonus from Makeup is only given once, and the
            chances in the table above summarize which bonus is given. You
            can never check which bonus you have gotten, but you are given
            an indication by the sound the game plays when makeup is applied.

            A +1 bonus gives a single 'tink' sound effect.
            A +3 bonus gives a healing sound effect.
            A +5 bonus gives a wind sound effect (may be difficult to hear).


                             Don Corneo's Choice:
                             --------------------
                .-----------------------.--------------------.
                |Total Attraction Value:|Don Corneo's Choice:|
                |=======================|====================|
                |      11 or less       |        Tifa        |
                |        12 - 18        |        Aeris       |
                |      19 or more       |        Cloud       |
                '-----------------------'--------------------'
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Make sure you stop by the dress shop to change Cloud's identity and head over to
the Don's mansion. Head upstairs and make your way down the basement on the left
where you'll find Tifa. Don't miss the Ether lying around in the basement.

Now, depending on who's chosen, you'll either find yourself in a room with horny
lackeys of the Don, or in Don's bedroom with a horny Corneo. We'd say both are
equally disgusting. If you're with the lackeys, just talk to all of them and
grab the Phoenix Down. Cloud will reveal he's a guy and kick some lackey butt.
Head through the middle door in the main hall and slip into Corneo's bedroom.

In Don's bedroom, be sure to get the well hidden Hyper behind the bed. If Cloud
got chosen, you'll be able to get the Phoenix Down from the other room some
other time. After the team gets the information they needed from the Don (by
effectively threatening his precious pair), Corneo plays his trump card and the
team falls down the sewers regardless of their answer.

Trivia: 'Corneo' means 'horny' in Italian (or Spanish, or several other neolatin
        languages), and (depending on the context) can also mean horny in a
        literal way. In other words, it would then describe an abstract form, as
        if to say, "That Behemoth's Horn has a horny form, don't you think?".
        [Please do note that we're not talking about a horny Behemoth here,
        because that would make the meaning of its horn more ambiguous than is
        necessary, and would overcomplicate this explication. Only the sight
        would be enough to terrify me.]  It's up to you to decide if Don Corneo
        is named for his hornyness or his .. "horny-ness".  And then it's still
        an undecided matter whether he's a cuckold in a vulgar sense, or whether
        he - more specifically, a certain body part of his - actually has .. 
        "horny-ness".  Square Enix, could you elaborate!?

            Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
            || {6} Sewers, Train Graveyard, and Pillar Assault ||      CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:| Potion, Phoenix Down(Boss Reward), Steal Materia, Hi-Potion,    ||
||          | Hi-Potion, Echo Screen, Potion, Potion, Potion, Ether,          ||
||          | Hi-Potion, Ether(Boss Reward).                                  ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

Grab the Potion before talking to Aeris and Tifa and head into the menu to equip
Tifa with better equipment. Be sure to give one of your characters the Fire
Materia. Moments after both girls get up, Corneo's sewer pet Aps shows up with
the intention to return the team to the planet.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Aps (Level: 18)                     |Weakness: Fire                     |
|HP: 1800                                  |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|Exp: 240                                  |-----------------------------------|
|AP: 22                                    |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Gil: 250                                  |Sleep, Poison, Slow, Stop,         |
|Drops: Phoenix Down(100%)                 |Paralysed, Darkness                |
|                                          '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Sewer Tsunami 1 [All Targets, Phys Atk, 77.5 Base Damage, Comes from |
|                          front, Aps will take between 180-192 damage himself]|
|         Sewer Tsunami 2 [All Targets, Phys Atk, 77.5 Base Damage, Comes from |
|                          back, Aps will take between 45-48 damage himself]   |
|         Lick            [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 15.5 Base Damage]                |
|         Tail Attack     [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 77.5 Base Damage]                |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: Aps may look like a tough boss, but he actually has a fair amount of|
|weaknesses you can exploit. Aps is particularly vulnerable to Fire, so have   |
|one of your characters cast this at all times to maintain a steady rate of    |
|damage. Ice and Bolt are still likely to inflict more damage than regular     |
|physical attacks, making them decent alternatives.                            |
|                                                                              |
|Aps is weak against the Paralysed status. If Aeris happens to already have    |
|learned her Seal Evil Limit Break, don't hesitate to use this and gain a few  |
|free turns as Aps is sealed in a paralyzing state. Similarly, Cloud's Limit   |
|Break Cross-slash can also paralyse Aps.                                      |
|                                                                              |
|Perhaps one of the weirdest bosses in the game, Aps actually damages himself  |
|with his most powerful attack Sewer Tsunami. This attack can come from either |
|side, dealing front/back damage to Aps and the party. When the attack hits    |
|the party from the back it helps a great deal to use Aeris' Healing Wind Limit|
|Break when it becomes available. Using Cure and a few Potions is an           |
|alternative option.                                                           |
|                                                                              |
|Technically it's possible to poison Aps by throwing a Deadly Waste item at him|
|if you've gotten this earlier in the game (as a dropped item from a random    |
|battle in the Reactor #05), but you might as well save it for later.          |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

Trivia: Aps is presumably named (and/or mistranslated) after Abzu, one of the
        primeval gods in the Babylonian creation epic Enuma Elis, and was made
        of fresh water.  He was the lover of Tiamat, an other primal deity that
        was made of salt water.  Incidentally Tiamat is not officially in Final
        Fantasy VII, although Aps does have a buddy you'll meet much later in
        the game.

After beating Aps, make your way through the sewers by climbing the ladders up
and down, and make sure you grab and equip the yellow orb: The Steal Materia.
The character with the highest Level has the best chance to steal items (even
though this only makes a marginal difference at this point). Jump down the hole,
head over to the other side and climb the ladder up to the train graveyard.

<Perfect Game Note 3:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Depending on what type of perfect game you're doing, you might be here for a
while to steal 99 Ghost Hand's from Ghosts. If you're planning on doing the
W-Item trick later in the game (which allows you to duplicate items), you'll
only need one copy.

Note: It is still possible to get Ghost Hands in the Battle Square of the Gold
Saucer, but ONLY before you get the airship. After that moment, the Ghosts will
permanently disappear from the Battle Square and Ghost Hands can no longer be
acquired. Get some now and save yourself the stress!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Train Graveyard houses many items, and we're not just talking about treasure
that you find in the field. The random encounters can turn out to be quite
rewarding as well: You can steal Ethers from Deenglows (the flying, pink-winged,
oversized dragonflies) and as you know by now, Ethers sell for 750 Gil a piece.
You might want to stock up on Ethers and never kill a Deenglow before stealing
from them.

Then there's the Ghost enemy from which you can steal a Ghost Hand. This is an
item that drains MP out of your opponent and gives it to you. While it's not
particularly useful, it is a fairly rare item and you might as well steal a few
while you're here anyway.

The last item of interest is the Graviball, which can be won from Deenglows. It
casts Demi, a spell that deals 1/4th of an enemy's HP if they're not immune to
Gravity based spells. Make *sure* you get a few of these, as they can help a lot
with getting a very powerful skill early in the game.

Note: You can only win an item from enemies if you didn't successfully steal
      from them. In this case, if you steal Ethers, you won't win a Graviball.

There's a Save Point here, so that allows the usage of a Tent. Head inside the
first train and walk out of it - check the barrel to find an Hi-Potion. Now head
back and climb over the train by climbing the ladder. Grab another Hi-Potion
and inspect the barrel on the upper left side of the screen to find an Echo
Screen.

Enter the train on the right and grab the Potion inside, after which you can
exit the train on the lower right side. Climb the nearby ladder and make your
way to the next screen - grab one final Potion before exiting the area.

Tip: In this area, keep your eyes out for a creature named Eligor. It appears
     alone and looks like a cybernetic centaur. It's definitely stronger than
     the regular enemies and you can steal the Striking Staff from it, a GREAT
     weapon for Aeris at this point of the game. This staff has at least 16 more
     attack power than the weapon she currently has equipped, so we suggest you
     take your time to steal this weapon from Eligor. This will usually take a
     hefty amount of attempts, but the reward is sweet. The chance of
     encountering Eligor is roughly 23.4% in this section of the train
     graveyard. It cannot be encountered in the southern section.

Snatch the Potion on the left and loot the left-most barrel to find an Ether.
Hop into the brownish train on the right to move the other train out of the way.
Finish the job by also hopping in the upper train. You can now climb the ladder
and grab the Hi-Potion. Walk over the train you moved and exit the place by the
left. When the team reaches the pillar, it doesn't take them long to realize
something is horribly wrong. AVALANCHE is fighting Shinra in the pillar!

Tifa asks Aeris to look after Marlene while she joins Cloud to help Barret.
Feel free to use the Save Point and prepare for a fairly long climb with random
encounters along the way. When you reach Barret, access the menu to tweak in
some last modifications before the next boss battle starts. Give Barret a
Materia with which he can attack, such as Fire, and give him a Mythril Armlet if
you have any spares left. Reno from the Turks makes his entry and isn't about to
let you fiddle with the explosives he just activated.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Reno (Level: 17)                    |Halves: Lightning                  |
|HP: 1000                                  |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|Exp: 290                                  |-----------------------------------|
|AP: 22                                    |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Gil: 500                                  |Sleep, Poison, Stop, Slow,         |
|Drops: Ether(100%)                        |Darkness                           |
|Steal: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Short Staff     [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 61.25 Base Damage]               |
|         Pyramid         [1 Enemy, Causes 100% Imprisoned]                    |
|         Electro-mag Rod [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 73.5 Base Damage,                |
|                          Can inflict Paralysed]                              |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: Reno doesn't have much HP, but he knows an attack called Pyramid    |
|which favors him in battle. This unique attack imprisons a character in a     |
|pyramid, during which this character cannot act. The only remedy is to hit the|
|imprisoned character with a physical attack to destroy the pyramid.           |
|                                                                              |
|Besides his Pyramid attack, Reno uses his Short Staff and Electro-mag Rod     |
|attacks on the team. Both are weak attacks and pose little threat if you keep |
|your HP above 150. Pummel Reno with Fire, Ice and physical attacks until he   |
|bails - a wise decision, considering the pillar is about the explode!         |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

Trivia: During the end of the FMV, President Shinra is listening to an existing
        piece of classical music.  It's "The Creation" from Franz Joseph Haydn.

The team barely manages to escape Sector 7 with sheer luck, and eventually the
team finds themselves back in Sector 6. Tifa manages to calm Barret down by
telling him that Marlene is probably safe. Best to double check at Aeris' place!

                     Oo=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                     ||       {7} Back in the slums       ||           CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:| Sense Materia, Turbo Ether, (Ether).                            ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

Cloud quickly departs, but Barret and Tifa join him shortly after. Head back to
the playground and pick up the yellow Sense Materia. This allows you to check on
enemy statistics in battle - something this guide will help you with as well.

Backtrack to Aeris' House by making your way through the slums of Sector 6. When
you get to Sector 5, attempt to steal a Speed Drink from the Vice enemies. This
item puts a character in Haste status - it's a fairly decent addition to have
this early on.

Remember the house with the sleeping kid in which you checked the drawers for
5 Gil? In this rightmost house the kid will offer you a Turbo Ether if you
didn't steal his 5 Gil earlier. Not too shabby!

When you arrive at Aeris' house the team finds that Marlene is safe and sound
with Elmyra. Unfortunately, Aeris was captured by Shinra. There's no other way
but to infiltrate the Shinra Building and free Aeris. Head upstairs and talk to
Barret to progress the game. Should you have the need to rest, use the bed on
the left before departing for Wall Market.

Not much has changed at Wall Market besides a few minor things. You can no
longer access the Honeybee Inn after causing all that commotion, but you'll find
that the Materia Shop has re-opened.

Go to the weapon shop and talk to the guy on the left. Looks like he found and
fixed three Batteries which he is selling for 100 Gil a piece. You need these
to progress, so go ahead and make the purchase.

If you hadn't gotten the Phoenix Down in the lackey room at Corneo's Mansion, do
so now. You can also squeeze some information out of Kotch who is tied up in the
basement. Lastly, if you had forgotten the Hyper behind Corneo's bed, go get it
now.

When you're done exploring, head outside and go right of the mansion to climb
a rope that fell down after Sector 7 was destroyed. The team can use this to
reach upper Midgar and reach the Shinra Building. Climb all the way up until you
get to a socket in which you need to fit the first battery. The battery doesn't
last very long, but the propeller now functions as a bridge, allowing you to
continue. The second socket powers a barricade that creates another bridge.
Before you swing over to the other side with the swinging bar, climb up to find
an optional battery socket. Using the battery reveals an Ether, but you might
want to read the note below.

<Perfect Game Note 4:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The last battery is a unique item whereas the Ether is a replaceable item with
little value later in the game. Your choice reflects a dilemma of some sorts
with on the one hand a perfect game that features 'getting all treasure' and on
the other hand 'making your inventory as complete as possible'.

Arguably one can reason that you *could've* gotten the Ether but instead chose
the battery because of its uniqueness. This means you can choose to ignore the
Ether and instead keep the rare battery.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

One of the last obstacles is a swinging bar - time your jump well to cling on
to swing over the gap. Climb all the way to the top and the team reaches the
Shinra Building. Time for a battle pose!

                     Oo=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                     ||      {8} Raiding Shinra HQ!       ||           CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure: | Elixir, [Elemental Materia, or Elixir, or Ether, or Potion],   ||
||           | Star Pendant, Four Slots, All Materia, Phoenix Down, Ether,    ||
||           | Poison Materia, Enemy Skill Materia, Potion (x4),              ||
||           | Talisman(Boss Reward), Protect Vest(Boss Reward),              ||
||           | Guard Source(Boss Reward), Star Pendant(Boss Reward).          ||
||-----------|                                                                ||
|| Other:    | Turtle's Paradise Flyer No. 2.                                 ||
||-----------|                                                                ||
|| Key Items:| Keycard 60, Keycard 62, A Coupon, B Coupon, C Coupon,          ||
||           | Keycard 65, Keycard 66, Midgar Parts (x5), Keycard 68.         ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

Barret is in for some action, but Tifa prefers a more sneaky route. You're given
the choice of entering through the front entrance or by sneaking around the back
and take the stairs. If you take the stairs, walk around the building and skip
ahead to the paragraph of the 59th floor.

Note: If you take the stairs you'll get no random encounters along the way, and
      the fifth set of stairs features an Elixir. If you thought you could just
      grab this treasure by going in through the front entrance, and backtrack
      to the stairs then you'll still have to travel through five screens of
      stairs - there's no quick way of obtaining it.

As you bust in, dispatch the group of Grenade Combatants and head to the back of
the first floor. Here, check the news bulletin in the right corner and read the
Turtle's Paradise Flyer No. 2. This is the rarest of the flyers, and you only
get two chances in the entire game to read it, this being the first. The second
floor features a shop and two closed treasure chests (which can only be opened
during a later visit), so you might as well hop on the elevator.

The elevator has its own unique battle mechanics     .-------.-----------------.
and you always start out on floor 6. When Cloud      |Chance:|## Floors Higher:|
presses one of the buttons, the elevator will advance|=======|=================|
between 7 - 15 floors randomly. The chances for this | 12.5% |        7        |
are laid out in the table on the right.              | 12.5% |        8        |
                                                     | 12.5% |        9        |
You'll usually have to fight through around 4-5      | 12.5% |       10        |
battles. Which enemies you get to fight is linked to | 12.5% |       11        |
the floor you land on (see the table below for       | 12.5% |       12        |
details on this). On the floors 29, 38, 47 and 56    | 12.5% |       13        |
you'll always run into a Shinra employee named Hito. | 6.25% |       14        |
(His name isn't actually shown in-game, but it just  | 6.25% |       15        |
happens to be his official name).                    '-------'-----------------'

.--.--------------------.  .--.--------------------.  .--.--------------------.
|F:|Encounter/Event:    |  |F:|Encounter/Event:    |  |F:|Encounter/Event:    |
|==|====================|  |==|====================|  |==|====================|
|13|2x Grenade Combatant|  |28|1x Mighty Grunt     |  |46|2x Sword Dance      |
|14|3x Grenade Combatant|  |29|Meeting with Hito   |  |47|Meeting with Hito   |
|15|1x Mighty Grunt     |  |30|1x Hammer Blaster   |  |48|1x Moth Slasher     |
|16|2x Mighty Grunt     |  |31|1x Sword Dance      |  |49|1x Sword Dance      |
|17|2x Grenade Combatant|  |32|2x Sword Dance      |  |50|1x Hammer Blaster   |
|18|3x Grenade Combatant|  |33|1x Moth Slasher     |  |51|1x Sword Dance      |
|19|1x Mighty Grunt     |  |34|1x Hammer Blaster   |  |52|1x Moth Slasher     |
|20|2x Mighty Grunt     |  |35|1x Sword Dance      |  |53|1x Hammer Blaster   |
|21|3x Grenade Combatant|  |36|2x Sword Dance      |  |54|2x Sword Dance      |
|22|2x Mighty Grunt     |  |37|1x Moth Slasher     |  |55|2x Sword Dance      |
|23|2x Grenade Combatant|  |38|Meeting with Hito   |  |56|Meeting with Hito   |
|24|2x Mighty Grunt     |  |39|1x Hammer Blaster   |  |57|1x Hammer Blaster   |
|25|1x Mighty Grunt     |  |40|2x Sword Dance      |  |58|1x Moth Slasher     |
|26|2x Grenade Combatant|  |41|1x Moth Slasher     |  |59|Final Stop          |
|27|3x Grenade Combatant|  |42|1x Sword Dance      |  '--'--------------------'
'--'--------------------'  '--'--------------------'

When you reach the 59th floor, approach the Shinra guards and dispatch the three
Mighty Grunts. Cloud will pick up the Keycard 60, which grants access all the
way up to floor 60. It is now possible to use this elevator whenever you like.

The 60th floor is basically a security center. Head into the room on the left
and prepare to cross the room to reach the stairwell on the right. To do so,
Cloud must hide behind the golden statues and make a run to the next whenever
the guards look away. Move Barret and Tifa with the circle button when Cloud
reaches the middle, and after he makes it to the stairs. Be warned that the
second part is slightly trickier because the guards run instead of walk. If you
get caught you'll have to try again.

Note: If your timing is particularly poor and you fail five times, the game will
      let you pass. The team has probably wiped out all guards on the security
      floor at that point.

On the 61st floor, talk to one of the guys walking around the lower part of the
screen and answer with "....." and guess what? You'll get the Keycard 62, no
questions asked! There's nothing else to do on this floor other than talking to
the rest of the NPC's.

Head up to the 62nd floor. This is the library and also the floor where
'Mayor' Domino has an office. He's in the room on the left, so pay him a visit.
Looks like the mayor loathes Shinra as much as the team does, so he offers them
his keycard if they guess the password correctly. He'll even throw in an extra
prize if you get it right on the first try.

Now.. Guessing the password to get the keycard isn't difficult, but getting the
best prize (a unique Elemental Materia), that's a little harder. Getting this
Materia is also crucial to optionally acquiring a powerful spell later on.

There are various ways to guess the correct password, and Domino's assistant
Hart hands out hints for a price. You can pay him 500, 1000, 2000, 5000, and
even 15000 gil for hints, but we urge you not to do this as we've assembled the
three best methods for guessing the password. Method 1 is the longest method,
but if you like puzzles then it's arguably the most fun. Methods 2 and 3 are
tricks to guess the password instantly.

Method 1
--------                              Lower Left: Urban Dev. Research Library
There are 4 different sections in  .-------------------------------------------.
the library. The lower left is the |Midgar City map: Sectors 5-8               |
'Urban Dev. Research Library'. In  |Reactor Construction Chart                 |
this section, the following files  |Problems with Plate construction in Midgar |
are the ones that this section     |New plans for Urban Planning               |
normally has to have:              |An illustrated guide to City Planning      |
                                   |Midgar City Map: Sectors 0-4               |
                                   '-------------------------------------------'

                                   Lower Right: Scientific Research Library
The lower right section is the .-----------------------------------------------.
'Scientific Research Library', |Final evolutionary stages in land dwelling life|
and the following files are    |Report on high Mako levels in living beings    |
the ones that the section      |The Ancients in History                        |
should normally have:          |Mako energy and the rise in life forms         |
                               |File on Dr. Gast, Biologist                    |
                               |Data on experimental animals living near Midgar|
                               '-----------------------------------------------'

                                                   Upper Left:
                                 Peace Preservation/Weapon Dev. Research Library
The upper left section is the      .-----------------------------------------.
'Peace Preservation/Weapon Dev.    |Materia production and its military uses |
Research Library' and the          |Heidegger's Shinra peace keeping law     |
following files are the ones       |Breakdown of SOLDIER members by class    |
that the section should normally   |Plan for new land weapons                |
have:                              |Economic report: anti-Shinra activities  |
                                   |Ranks and extended use of Mako weaponry  |
                                   '-----------------------------------------'

                                     Upper Right: Space Dev. Research Library
Last, the upper right section is .---------------------------------------------.
the 'Space Dev. Research Library'|Modern history of Midgar space program vol. 1|
and the following files are the  |Modern history of Midgar space program vol. 2|
ones that the section should     |Diminishing Mako energy and Planet movements |
normally have:                   |Results of the failed space mission "YA-79"  |
                                 |Economic report: Space Dev Program           |
                                 |Shinra rocket space travel                   |
                                 '---------------------------------------------'

You'll notice that there is one file in each section that doesn't belong there.
Use the tables to figure out the correct placements of files. When a file
doesn't belong in a certain section, check the number in front of it. This
number indicates which letter of the file is used in the password. For example,
with the file 'Shinra rocket space travel' with the number 15, the letter A is
used in the password. Spaces don't count, only letters and characters do. Check
all four the sections, and you'll get four letters. These letters should form
one of the words the Mayor lets you pick out of: BEST, KING, ORBS, BOMB, MAKO,
HOJO. The answer is *never* ORBS or HOJO.

Method 2
--------
This method makes your life a lot easier. Walk to the upper right room, also
known as the 'Space Dev. Research Library', which has a blue floor and green
shelves. Check the file on the LEFT of the MIDDLE shelf and consult the table
below for the password.

       .------------------------------------------.------------------.
       |If the file is this:                      |Then password is: |
       |------------------------------------------|------------------|
       |2 Economic report: Space Dev Program      |       BEST       |
       |1 Results of failed space mission "YA-79" |       KING       |
       |1 Breakdown of SOLDIER members by class   |       BOMB       |
       |10 New plans for urban planning           |       MAKO       |
       '------------------------------------------'------------------'

Method 3
--------
An alternative trick to solve the puzzle is (once you've entered the 62nd
floor) to head down to the bottom floor with the elevator, go outside and save
your game. Head back up to the 62nd floor and try all passwords until you get
the right one. Memorize the password, load up your save game and voila! The
password stays the same if you use this method.

              .------------------------------------------------.
              |Your reward varies on how good you do:          |
              |================================================|
              |Get it right on your  1st try: Elemental Materia|
              |Get it right on your  2nd try: Elixir           |
              |Get it right on your  3rd try: Ether            |
              |Get it right on your  4th try: Potion           |
              |Get it right on your 5th+ try: Nothing          |
              '------------------------------------------------'

With the Keycard 65, head up to the 63rd floor. This is an optional floor, but
you can collect three treasures if you take the time to solve a puzzle. Walk to
the computer in the lower right room to grant you access to open up three doors
in total on this floor.

To get all items you must open up the right combination of doors. Walk all the
way up around the right and go left. The door that blocks the hall to the left
is the first one you should open up. Continue left, ignoring the first door
below, but open the *second* door below. Grab the 'A Coupon' from the room to
the left and enter the air duct. Crawl to the end on the top of the screen, and
grab the 'B Coupon' from the room you land in. Now just walk out the room, turn
left, open the door and grab the 'C Coupon' from the room. Crawl back in the air
duct and exit by the right.

<Perfect Game Note 5:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Don't exchange the Coupons for the items. While the items can be acquired
through other means later in the game, the Coupons are one of a kind and will be
lost forever to you. While you could regard this as another dilemma, similar to
when you had to choose between the Battery and the Ether, the same principle
applies here. Are you going for a complete inventory, or do you want to grab all
the treasure in the game (which no one will ever be able to check).
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The computer can change the coupons you found for the following items:

A Coupon = Star Pendant
B Coupon = Four Slots
C Coupon = 'All' Materia

The Four Slots has - well, it's got 4 slots but has a poor defense rating so we
advise not to use it. The Star Pendant is your first accessory and it protects
against Poison. You might as well equip it on Cloud.

The 64th floor is a recreational area with a fitness room, relaxation room and
everything along those lines. There's a vending machine in the upper left corner
of the fitness room which sells a 'Shinra Gym Special Drink' for 250 gil. Pay up
and choose to bang on the machine. An employee will stop Cloud's bashing, but
you can revisit this area later to claim a reward. Search the locker room to
find a Phoenix Down, an Ether and someone's Ultimate Weapon - but since Cloud
doesn't see any use in holding on to a megaphone, it can't be obtained at this
point.

The 65th floor has random encounters again, although the encounter rate is
fairly low. The idea of the puzzle is to complete the scale model of Midgar with
the Midgar Parts scattered over the area in boxes. The lower chest in the upper
left room holds the first parts. Place them in the model counterclockwise,
starting with the bottom right. Where you place the parts matters for which
chest opens. If you place them like this, the chests will open in the order this
guide describes. Every time that you place the parts in the model, another chest
opens up.

- The second Midgar Parts are found in the lower chest in the lower left room.
- The third Midgar Parts are in the remaining chest in the upper left room.
- The fourth Midgar Parts are in the remaining chest in the lower left room.
- The last Midgar Parts are in the upper right room. After placing the parts,
  the chest near the stairs opens up and you can take the Keycard 66 from it.

The 66th floor is the conference floor where Shinra plans their evil schemes.
Could it be a coincidence that this is based at the 66th floor (a rather evil
number, we think)? Go to the restroom on the upper left of the screen and enter
one of the toilets. After flushing like a gentleman, climb inside the shaft to
eavesdrop on the conference. When the meeting is over, follow Professor Hojo to
the next floor.

Tip: The 67th floor has random encounters, and you can get yourself some good
     equipment by stealing from Moth Slashers (the robotic enemy on a spinning
     wheel), and SOLDIER:3rd. The Moth Slashers hold a Carbon Bangle, a great
     armor with 27 defense and 3 slots (two of which are paired slots), while
     you can steal a Hardedge from any SOLDIER:3rd - a great weapon for Cloud
     which is twice as good as the Buster Sword. You may find the encounter rate
     fairly low once again, but it's definitely worth the effort.

When you're all done stealing, visit the laboratory on the left to view a scene.
Grab the Poison Materia from the chest, prepare your characters for an upcoming
battle and use the Save Point. Cloud could make good use of the Star Pendant
while Barret is best set up with the Poison - Elemental combination placed in
his armor on *linked slots*. This will protect them from poison attacks. It also
helps to give Cloud the Fire - All, and Barret the Ice - All combination.

When you're all set, ride the lift up to the 68th floor and rescue Aeris from
the dreadful Hojo and his test samples! If you set Barret up for the fight, send
Tifa to look after Aeris.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Sample: H0512 (Level: 19)           |Halves: Lightning                  |
|HP: 1000                                  |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|MP: 120                                   |Absorb: Poison                     |
|Exp: 300                                  |-----------------------------------|
|AP: 30                                    |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Gil: 250                                  |Sleep, Stop, Slow, Darkness,       |
|Drops: Talisman(100%)                     |Paralysed                          |
|Steal: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Keyclaw       [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 63 Base Damage]                    |
|         Shady Breath [All Enemies, Cost=4MP, Can inflict Poison]             |
|         Reanimagic   [All Allies, Mag Atk, Cost=40MP,                        |
|                       Revives all dead OPT-Samples]                          |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: This boss has the advantage of often being in the back row because  |
|of his little OPT-samples. Only Barret deals full damage with physical attacks|
|when attacking the boss, so magic should be your primary offensive arsenal.   |
|                                                                              |
|Never use Poison in this battle since H0512 absorbs it - instead use Fire and |
|Ice to damage the boss and it's henchmen. Cloud's Limit Break Cross-slash can |
|paralyse H0512 for a few turns, while Barret and Red XIII deal solid damage   |
|with their initial Limit Breaks.                                              |
|                                                                              |
|If Barret already has his Mindblow Limit Break, this can deplete the boss' MP |
|instantly, restricting it to only it's Keyclaw attack. Alternatively, the boss|
|can only revive its henchmen up to a maximum of three times before it runs    |
|out of MP. Keep your HP high at all times and take good care of your poisoned |
|characters. The boss has only 1000 HP, so a few powerful Limit Breaks should  |
|easily do it in. If you kill the main boss, the henchmen die along. If you do |
|dispatch them separately, you're rewarded with additional Tranquilizers as    |
|battle spoils.                                                                |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

After the battle, form a party and grab the Enemy Skill Materia from the sample
cage. Head up the small steps and get the two Potions. Out of fear, the employee
is quick to offer his Keycard 68 to you. Head to the right and snatch two more
Potions along the way. Now head downstairs until you reach the 66th floor's
elevator. Rude and Tseng (from the Turks) catch you off guard and the team is
taken in captivity.

After meeting President Shinra, the team is locked up in the prison cells on the
67th floor. Talk to Tifa, then approach the door and think of your other team
members.

Tip: If you want to date Tifa, talk to her many times and keep answering with
     "Leave it to me.". Otherwise, if you'd rather date someone else, instead
     pick the other option "Kinda hard."

What's this? After getting some sleep, the cell door of Cloud's room has been
left wide open, and the guard in the hallway has been killed. What's going on?
After assembling a party, follow Red XIII into the lift and from here on, follow
the trail of blood up to the 70th floor.

That's one big sword sticking out of the president's back, if you know what I
mean. This can only mean one thing: Sephiroth is still alive! The president's
son Rufus is quick to arrive and replace his old man, so you'd better head
outside and pay your respects.

The team splits up and Cloud stays behind to deal with Rufus. You can now choose
to remove Cloud and Tifa's Materia - do this. You'll want to give Aeris the
Lightning Materia and Red XIII at least one other magic materia. Head towards
the elevator and a double boss battle starts.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Hundred Gunner (Level: 18)          |Note: Long-range enemy             |
|HP: 1600                                  |Weakness: Lightning                |
|MP: 0                                     |Halves: Gravity                    |
|Exp: ---                                  |-----------------------------------|
|AP: ---                                   |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Gil: ---                                  |Slow                               |
|Drops: ---                                |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Aux Artillery    [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 110 Base Damage]                |
|         Hidden Artillery [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 137.5 Base Damage]              |
|         Main Artillery   [All Enemies, Phys Atk, 123.75 Base Damage]         |
|         Wave Artillery   [All Enemies, Phys Atk, 185.625 Base Damage]        |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Name: Heli Gunner (Level: 19)             |Note: Long-range enemy             |
|HP: 1000                                  |Weakness: Lightning, Wind          |
|MP: 0                                     |Nullifies: Earth                   |
|Exp: 250                                  |-----------------------------------|
|AP: 25                                    |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Gil: 200                                  |Slow                               |
|Drops: Mythril Armlet(100%)               |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: AB Cannon   [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 119 Base Damage, Can inflict Sleep]  |
|         C Cannon    [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 119 Base Damage, Can inflict Poison] |
|         Firing Line [All Enemies, Phys Atk, 141.3125 Base Damage,            |
|                      Can inflict Poison, Sleep]                              |
|         Spinning Bodyblow [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 148.75 Base Damage]            |
|         Flying Drill      [1 Enemy, Phy Atk, 178.5 Base Damage]              |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: This is the hardest boss fight so far since you'll be facing two    |
|opponents in this battle, one after the other. The battle starts with Hundred |
|Gunner destroying the elevator glass.                                         |
|                                                                              |
|Hundred Gunner has access to a few powerful attacks which can all inflict over|
|100 damage, of which two that hit the entire party. Aeris' Healing Wind can   |
|effectively counter these stronger attacks when things get rough.             |
|                                                                              |
|Barret is the only character capable of using physical attacks in this fight, |
|so have Red XIII and Aeris focus on delivering magical blows to the enemy.    |
|When Hundred Gunner breaks down it is immediately replaced by Heli Gunner.    |
|                                                                              |
|This machine uses physical attacks which can inflict Poison and Sleep, but    |
|that's the only big difference between Heli and Hundred Gunner. Keep pounding |
|Heli Gunner with Bolt and Limit Breaks to defeat it quickly; It's only got    |
|1000 HP.                                                                      |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

The game flashes back to Cloud, who's about to battle Rufus, the new president
of Shinra Inc. Remove the materia of the others and give Cloud the Poison
Materia. The rest of his setup doesn't matter much.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Rufus (Level: 21)                   |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|HP: 500                                   |-----------------------------------|
|MP: 0                                     |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Exp: 240                                  |Sleep, Poison, Slow, Paralysed     |
|AP: 35                                    |                                   |
|Gil: 400                                  |                                   |
|Drops: Protect Vest(100%)                 |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Shotgun [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 57 Base Damage]                          |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Name: Dark Nation (Level: 15)             |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|HP: 140                                   |Only Immune to Confusion           |
|MP: 80                                    |                                   |
|Exp: 70                                   |                                   |
|AP: 7                                     |                                   |
|Gil: 250                                  |                                   |
|Drops: Guard Source(100%)                 |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Bite     [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 63 Base Damage]                         |
|         Barrier  [1 Ally, Mag Atk, Cost=16MP, Inflicts 100% Barrier]         |
|         MBarrier [1 Ally, Mag Atk, Cost=24MP, Inflicts 100% MBarrier]        |
|         Bolt     [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=4MP, 90 Base Damage]                |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: Focus on Rufus' pet dog Dark Nation first, as it will otherwise cast|
|protective magic on Rufus (namely Barrier and MBarrier). A Limit Break will   |
|dispatch the beast right away, but Bio is a good start.                       |
|                                                                              |
|With Dark Nation out of the way, the battle becomes a breeze. Poison Rufus and|
|pummel him with physical attacks. Cloud's Cross-slash can even Paralyse Rufus,|
|but it'll hardly be necessary. Rufus bails in the heat of the battle by       |
|clinging on to the helicopter.                                                |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

After the battle with Rufus, head downstairs and save your game. When Cloud
meets up with Tifa, walk Aeris towards the entrance and the team will make their
escape.

You'll be given the option to form and regroup your party first. Since the next
boss attacks you from the back, make sure that everyone except Barret is in the
back row (this will be inversed in that boss battle). Give Cloud the Lightning
Materia and place an Elemental - Fire combo in his armor. Have one other
character equipped with a Restore - All setup. Lastly, be sure to equip the
accessories Protect Vest and Talisman since they increase defense.

A mini game now commences. You can use square and circle to attack left and
right respectively. Slash the persuading bikers who are mainly after the car
with your the team. The orange bikers are easy targets and you tend to wonder
why Shinra ever hired them. The red bikers probably ponder this as well and
they are a much higher threat. They'll try to lure you away from the truck so
that other bikers can reach and damage the car. Be cautious when you spot a red
biker and try to defeat as many of them as you can. At the end of the track,
another mechanical Shinra creation attacks your team by using its spinning
motor ball. Let's chop that ball off, shall we?

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Motor Ball (Level: 19)              |Weakness: Lightning                |
|HP: 2600                                  |Halves: Fire                       |
|MP: 120                                   |Nullifies: Gravity, Poison         |
|Exp: 440                                  |-----------------------------------|
|AP: 45                                    |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Gil: 350                                  |Slow                               |
|Drops: Star Pendant(100%)                 |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: {Highway Back Attack} [All Enemies, Phys Atk, 70 Base Damage]        |
|         Deadly Wheel [1/All Enemies, Phys Atk, 70 Base Damage]               |
|         Twin Burner  [1/All Enemies, Mag Atk, Cost=16MP, Fire Element,       |
|                       135 Base Damage]                                       |
|         Rolling Fire [All Enemies, Mag Atk, Cost=24MP, Fire Element,         |
|                       216 Base Damage]                                       |
|         Arm Attack [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 87.5 Base Damage]                     |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: Motor Ball ambushes you and deals about 70 damage to the party. If  |
|you changed the rows of your party then there's no need to swap them manually,|
|otherwise you might want to consider this.                                    |
|                                                                              |
|Keep your party's HP above 250 and attack the boss with Bolt and Ice; You'll  |
|want to avoid Fire-based spells since Motor Ball halves this element. The boss|
|likes to play with fire itself, so if you have someone with the elemental     |
|protection in their armor, this definitely cuts down on the damage.           |
|                                                                              |
|While it's possible to slow the boss with a Spider Web item, or even speed up |
|your characters with Speed Drinks, this shouldn't be necessary unless you're  |
|rather underleveled.                                                          |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

The team leaves Midgar to chase Sephiroth. Make sure to place your characters in
the correct order again after the boss battle, and form a party. As you set foot
on the World Map, the game suddenly gets a whole lot less linear.

                     Oo=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                     ||    {9} Flashback at Kalm Town     ||           CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:| Megalixir, Ether, Ether, Peacemaker, Guard Source, Ether.       ||
||----------|                                                                 ||
|| Other:   | Orthopedic Underwear (no real item).                            ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

You can save your game whenever you like when on the World Map, and you can
thus use Tents anywhere as well.

Tip: Before you head over to Kalm, which is located slightly northeast of
Midgar, take your time to find some Custom Sweepers in the dirt area. These
mechanical enemies use an attack called 'Matra Magic', which you can acquire by
learning it on the Enemy Skill Materia. The character who is equipped with this
Materia needs to be hit by, *and* survive the attack. The battle must then be
won to permanently acquire that skill.

You can also steal Atomic Scissors from Custom Sweepers, a much better weapon
for Barret at this point. Note however that this is one of Barret's few *non*-
long range weapons.

The Prowlers in this area can steal your items in a similar fashion the Vice
could in the Sector 5 Slums. Be extremely careful around these thieves and
always prioritize dispatching them as the first of the bunch. In turn you can
steal Ethers from Prowlers and Kalm Fangs. As you know by now, Ethers sell for
750 Gil a piece.

A visit to Kalm is mandatory; If you attempt to rush onward you'll get stopped
by the time you get to the Mythril Mines. At Kalm, follow the team inside the
Inn and go upstairs, where a long flashback unfolds.

Speak with Sephiroth, explore the town of Nibelheim and stop by Cloud's and
Tifa's houses (on the upper right of town). In Tifa's house, enter her room
upstairs .. and check the drawer to find Orthopedic Underwear. You know it's
true! Make sure you play on her piano as well and tell Tifa that you jammed on
it.

<Perfect Game Note 6:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You must play the piano and say 'Yeah, I jammed on it'. Only by choosing this
option can you get a unique Elemental Materia from the piano on Disc 2.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When you're done exploring, head inside the Inn and talk with Sephiroth
upstairs. After getting some rest, go outside and proceed to explore Mount
Nibel with Tifa as guide. As you follow the linear path of the caves, let
Sephiroth do the fighting; He'll dispatch entire groups of enemies in mere
seconds. You'll reach the reactor eventually and more scenes follow.

As the story continues, Cloud finds himself in the Shinra Mansion. Go upstairs,
enter the right part of the mansion and speak with the Shinra soldier on guard.
There's a secret entrance in this room which leads to the basement. After the
scenes in the basement, Sephiroth goes badass and does horrible things to the
town and it's people. The flashback's conclusion unfolds in the reactor, but was
that all there is to the story?

Back in Kalm, head back upstairs when you're given the chance and inspect the
cabinet left of the stairs five times to acquire the Megalixir. Downstairs
you're given the 'PHS', a mobile cellphone that adds the PHS option to your
menu. This allows you to freely change your party on the World Map and any Save
Points.

Trivia: In case you were wondering just what PHS stands for: It's Party Hensei
        System, and Hensei means editing. A funny thing about the abbreviation
        of PHS is that it also stands for Personal Handiphone System in Japan,
        or simply a cellphone!

Head out of the Inn and explore the next house on the right. An Ether is hidden
behind the door under the stairs, and there are no other treasures in this
house. The house in the middle contains an Ether upstairs, which is found in the
cabinet.

Note: The locked treasure chest here cannot be opened. There have been valid
      rumors that it was part of a sidequest involving dummied-out Key Items
      'Letter to a Daughter' and 'Letter to a Wife'. The reward for this quest
      was probably the Golem Materia.

In the last house, climb the spiral stairs and grab the Peacemaker from the
chest - this is a weapon for a future character. While taking a peek through the
small window doesn't do anything, it's still neat to know of the possibility.
Go downstairs and head up the other stairs. Check the cabinet left of the girl
to find a Guard Source.

Back at the town square, enter the single house on the right and check the door
below the stairs to find another Ether - it's like a drug to these townspeople!

With the town explored, consider making a stop at one of the stores located on
the northern side of the village. The Item Shop on the left doesn't sell much of
interest, but the Materia Store sells two Materia you don't have yet: Earth and
Heal. While you could purchase a better glove for Tifa at the Weapon Store, you
will soon be able to steal an even more powerful glove for free.

As you set foot on the world map and travel east, remember that the Matra Magic
enemy skill can wipe out most groups of enemies early in the game. Make good use
of it before the spell becomes obsolete!

         Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO
         || {10} Chocobo Ranch, the Marshes, and the Mythril Mines ||  CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:  | Choco/Mog Materia, Chocobo Lure Materia, Long Range Materia,  ||
||------------| Ether, Tent, Mind Source, Elixir, Hi-Potion.                  ||
|| Fort Condor|                                                               ||
|| Treasure:  | Magic Comb.                                                   ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

You'll soon reach *the* Chocobo Ranch, which is hard to miss in the vast eastern
grasslands. As you first enter, speak with the Chocobo and 'Wark' hello. All
Chocobos perform a little dance for you and spit out your very first summon
Materia: Choco/Mog.

Note: The Choco/Mog Materia is your first Summon Materia, and it's a fairly odd
      one as well because it is two attacks combined in one: There's the
      'DeathBlow!!' attack which is very common; This is a non-elemental attack
      that has a chance of inflicting Stop on enemies. Secondly, and much rarer
      with only a rough chance of 5.86% of appearing is the 'Fat-Chocobo'. This
      non-elemental attack is slightly more powerful, but doesn't inflict any
      statuses.

Tip: If you pair the Choco/Mog Materia with the Elemental Materia in someone's
     weapon, this will grant the Wind Element to all their physical attacks.
     Many enemies are vulnerable to Wind, and as such you'll deal twice as much
     damage to them with the character you equipped this combo on. Always keep
     an eye out for flying or airborne enemies as these are usually susceptible
     to Wind. As such, it's best to equip this combination on a character who
     uses Long Range weapons by default, as flying enemies could otherwise be
     out of reach for characters without the Long Range ability.

Enter the house and talk to the man named Choco Bill. He can tell you just how
dangerous the Marshes are (as we're about to find out) and informs you that he
saw a man in a black cape traveling right through it. The bedroom can be used
to rest at a medium price of 100 Gil.

Inside the stables you'll find Choco Billy - now this guy knows almost
everything there is to know about catching and raising Chocobos. Since he's in a
good mood, he'll sell you the Chocobo Lure for a mere 2000 Gil. It's a two-of-a-
kind Materia, so take the offer and equip it on one of your characters.

You've probably noted the Chocobo tracks on the world map, well, if you've got
the Chocobo Lure Materia equipped you can actually encounter Chocobos in battle.
Before you catch a Chocobo to travel over the Marshes, consider doing a few
optional things first that can really boost your team's power.

<Perfect Game Note 7:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
If you get the L4 Suicide skill now it will save you a lot of trouble later.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[Optional: Getting 3 extra Enemy Skills]
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
If you don't want to follow these optional notes, skip ahead to catching a
Chocobo and crossing the Marshes with it, and proceed to the Mythril Mines.

L4 Suicide:
-----------
This enemy skill can be gotten from the small mole-like critters named Mu. They
can be fairly uncommon to encounter, and they don't use the attack all that
often either, but it's still not *too* hard to get this skill. Make sure not all
of your characters' levels are divisible by four (Level 12, 16, 20, etc.), or
the attack will cause critical damage [31/32 of HP] and 100% Mini to everyone.

Chocobuckle:
------------
With the above skill in your possession it is possible to also acquire the skill
Chocobuckle, but this one is a lot harder to get. In order for a Chocobo to use
this skill, it needs to lose 31/32nd of its Max HP and the attack may not fully
deplete its HP. Furthermore, the Chocobo must've eaten either a Sylkis or Mimett
Greens to unlock the possibility of using the skill at all. So, just exactly how
to deal with this?

Buy at least one Mimett Greens from Choco Billy back at the stables and save
your game. Get into a battle with a Chocobo and sense it to check if it's Level
16. If not, try and get another battle with a Chocobo until it is. Then, use the
Mimett Green on it (which unlocks the possibility for the Chocobo to use
Chocobuckle), and quickly cast the L4 Suicide skill; The Chocobo will counter
with Chocobuckle.

Beta:
-----
This last enemy skill can be gotten from no other than the Midgar Zolom, the
oversized serpent roaming the Marshes. The beast has 4000 HP, its bites inflict
several hundred damage and Beta usually inflicts well over a 1000 points of
damage. How in the world are we going to learn that skill right now?

It takes a little preparation in order to acquire Beta, and there are two
different possibilities. The first requires fighting several battles most likely
while the second should always work.

Strategy 1: Get Aeris into your party and give her an Enemy Skill Materia with
----------- Matra Magic. You'll want to learn her 3-1 Limit Break, Planet
Protector, which puts your party into the peerless status for a short while.
This is the same thing as invulnerability. In the Mythril Mines you'll often
come across enemy groups of 4-5 in one battle. Have Aeris wipe them out with
Matra Magic. After approximately 30 battles she should learn Planet Protector.

Save your game before attempting anything! During the battle with the Midgar
Zolom, keep track of his HP and don't make it fall below 1500. Use Graviballs
(or Poison) to severely chop its HP down. When it draws close to 1500 HP, use
Planet Protector with Aeris, and pummel the snake a little more. It will then
cast Beta (which it casts when it drops below 1500 HP) and with the peerless
status you will survive. Cast Beta right back at it to end the battle
victoriously.

Strategy 2: You MUST have the Elemental Materia in order to proceed with this
----------- strategy. After un-equipping all materia and accessories, check in
the status screen which character has the highest HP and Spirit, and give that
character the Talisman accessory and your best armor (which should be the Carbon
Bangle). Also place the Elemental-Fire combination in the linked slots of that
character's ARMOR. Make sure you've given them the Enemy Skill Materia as well.
Don't equip any other Materia on this character as it'll only lower their HP.

One of your other characters will need the Poison Materia and Choco/Mog, and
hand the Restore Materia to your last member. Carbon Bangles will help you
increase their defense, and all characters should be placed in the back row.

Get into a random encounter and fill up all three character's Limit Break Bars.
Give your characters Tranquilizers to place them under the Sadness status. While
this halves their Limit Break Bar Speed (which doesn't matter much as you just
filled these up), this status also reduces the damage taken from many attacks by
approximately 30.86%. Save your game after this preparation.

In short:
=========
1. Fire-Elemental linked in the armor of the character with Enemy Skill.
2. Talisman on character with Enemy Skill.
3. Poison materia on a second character.
4. All characters in back row.
5. All characters in Sadness status.
6. All characters Limit Break Bar full.

During the fight, immediately throw any Graviballs at the Zolom. The first does
a whopping of 1000 damage, the second 750. Make sure you poison the snake after
this and keep track of its HP. It's a good time to use your Limit Breaks when
the poison sticks, and it'll cut down another good portion of life. When its HP
drops below 1500 it will counter with Beta (so when it drops under 1500 due to
poison damage, it won't use Beta). Just make sure you don't attack the Zolom
with the character that comes equipped with the Enemy Skill Materia once the
snake drops near 2000 HP, or it might knock them out of battle.

A surefire way to win the fight and learn Beta is to wait until the poisoned
snake has about 400 HP left (just wait your turns and let the poison do the
talking). When you attack it at this time it will use Beta and immediately die
due to double poison damage.

This is a rather advanced strategy that may require several attempts. Be warned.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
<End of Optional part>

Crossing the Marshes can be done by three means. You can catch a Chocobo, you
can try to outrun the Zolom by foot, or you can battle the Zolom.

Catching a Chocobo:
-------------------
Keep walking near the chocobo tracks with a Chocobo Lure Materia equipped and
you'll soon get in a battle with a Chocobo. Feed it one of the greens (Curiel
Greens work best for now as they keep the Chocobo occupied for 5 turns). Kill
the remaining enemies and you'll have caught the Chocobo.

Note: You can also get to the other side of the Marshes by just walking in, save
      your game and load your progress. Every time you start the game up the
      Zolom will spawn elsewhere instead of nearby, allowing you to take a few
      more steps. We suggest you keep a separate file in case things go horribly
      wrong, however.. It is also worthwhile to note that you can outrun the
      Zolom when it heads to the far western corner. Experiment a little with
      this.

A frightening view awaits the team at the entrance of the Mythril Mines. One of
the mighty Zoloms was ruthlessly shishkebabbed by Sephiroth! Such power cannot
be human..

Mythril Mine:
-------------
The Mythril Mine is a rather small area consisting of only four screens. Head
right and climb the vines on the left to reach a cliff with the Long Range
Materia. This is a very useful Materia as it grants the same ability that long
range weapons give: You can hit anything for full damage regardless of front or
back row. It is best given to a character who does not have the long range
ability already (Barret does), so Cloud would be a candidate. Make sure to place
him in the back row to benefit from the effects.

An Ether and Tent can be acquired from the stone steps. If you're interested in
learning another enemy skill, have one of the Ark Dragons hit the properly
equipped character with their Flame Thrower skill.

Back in the initial mines, keep an eye out for enemies called Madouge (they
swing a ball above their head). You can steal a Grand Glove from them, which is
by far the best weapon for Tifa at this time. Make your way through the cave and
grab the Mind Source from a chest on the lower right of the area.

The team encounters the Turks at the exit of the mines. Elena - apparently a
newcomer amongst the Turks - spoils the direction in which Sephiroth is headed.
At least we know he's going to Junon now! Explore the northern cave to find an
Elixir and a Hi-Potion, then exit the area.

Back on the World Map it is up to you whether you head straight for Junon or do
an optional and well-rewarding side quest at Fort Condor.

<Perfect Game Note 8/Fort Condor Note 1:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
From now on you can expect to see Fort Condor Battle Notes throughout the guide
to ensure you won't miss any of them. Losing a battle means losing a treasure
at the very last of battles due to the nature of the mechanics behind the prizes
given out at Fort Condor.

While it's possible to obtain an obscure Vagyrisk Claw by battling Cmd. Grand
Horn during one of the first three battles at Fort Condor (which requires to
lose a fight), this isn't recommended as you can obtain these items through an
other method. Losing a Fort Condor battle means you lose a prize.

The prize for the first battle at Fort Condor is a Magic Comb.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Fort Condor is hard to miss; Just look for a huge condor on top of a blue
reactor. Tell the guard that you're here to help, climb up and inquire about the
situation with the old man at the table. Agree to help them and you're free to
make use of their resources. The shops don't sell anything new, so instead visit
the battlefield overview on the upper left side of Fort Condor.

Talk to the guy in command of the battlefield and he'll tell you how the mini
game works. You also have the option to donate funds, but this isn't necessary.
Tell him you're ready to start the battle.

You can win any Fort Condor battle very easily and very quickly by placing just
one unit (as low as possible on the screen) before starting the battle. As soon
as the battle starts, move the battle speed up to the maximum by pressing R1 and
place a soldier below the other one. Try to place it as low as possible; There's
essentially a red laser line that will mark your territory as you attempt to
place units too low. Repeat this until you can practically place all your units
next to the enemies and secure the bottom area. When all enemies are defeated
before getting help of reinforcements, the battle will be won.

The prize for this first battle is a Magic Comb, a weapon for Red XIII with
Double Materia growth. Any Materia placed in weapons with double growth will
level up twice as fast since they get double the AP gained from battles.

When you're done in Fort Condor, head back to the World Map and travel west.
You can either proceed to Junon now or take the time to meet a potential party
member named Yuffie. She comes with the all-new Throw Materia as added bonus!

Meeting Yuffie:
---------------
You can meet Yuffie in any forest on    .--------------------------------------.
the World Map, so this is the very first|         Junon Area:  32/256 (= 12.5%)|
opportunity to meet her. The forests    |       Gongaga Area:  64/256 (= 25.0%)|
around Junon are also those with the    |         Nibel Area:  64/256 (= 25.0%)|
lowest chance of meeting Yuffie (12.5%),|   Rocket Town Area: 255/256 (= ~100%)|
so it might take a while to run into    |     Woodlands Area: 128/256 (= 50.0%)|
her.                                    |        Mideel Area: 128/256 (= 50.0%)|
                                        |Goblin/Round Island: 128/256 (= 50.0%)|
                                        '--------------------------------------'

Tip: Before attempting to get Yuffie on your team, consult the date mechanics
     if you want to date her later!

Defeat the Mystery Ninja and you'll get to an open     .----------------------.
field. Unless you want to solve this on your own (in   |Correct Answers:      |
which case you should lay this guide aside now), make  |----------------------|
sure you *never* take your eyes off Yuffie. This means |"Not Interested"      |
you can *not* enter the menu or use the save point. To |"......petrified"     |
get her to join, give her the following answers:       |"Wait a second!"      |
                                                       |"......That's right"  |
You'll get to name her as you leave. Note that if you  |"......Let's hurry on"|
fail and Yuffie bails on you, she'll steal a random    '----------------------'
amount of Gil from you as well!

Yuffie comes equipped with the Throw Materia that allows you to throw weapons at
enemies (and later on, you'll unlock the Coin command as well, which allows Gil
to be thrown).

Further note that Yuffie also uses long ranged weapons, giving her an advantage
over other characters; Make sure to place her in the back row. If you decide to
use her, take your time to steal a Boomerang from the Formula enemy (the purple
birds). This is a great weapon for Yuffie.

Junon:
------
Now head west until you reach the coast. Junon might be tricky to see from
this angle, but the with the size of the cannon attached to this city it
shouldn't take *too* long to find either.

                     Oo=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                     ||             {11} Junon            ||           CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:  | Shiva Materia, Power Wrist(Boss Reward),                      ||
||            | (Grenade or 6 Potions or 6 Ethers or 5000 gil), Enemy Skill   ||
||            | Materia, Luck Source, Mind Source, 1/35 soldier, Guard Source,||
||            | Power Source, Speed Source, 1/35 soldier,                     ||
||------------| (Silver glasses or HP Plus Materia or Force Stealer).         ||
|| Fort Condor|                                                               ||
|| Treasure:  | Peace Ring, 3 Ethers.                                         ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

There's not much to do in the harbor of Junon, and the weapon shop only sells
junk. Before you head to the beach, be sure to equip your party well for an
upcoming fight and give Cloud the Long Range Materia. It helps to also give him
the combo Elemental - Choco/Mog in his *weapon*. This adds wind damage to his
sword, allowing to deal twice the damage to the upcoming boss.

After meeting a girl named Priscilla on the beach, a big monster appears.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Bottomswell (Level: 23)             |Note: Long-range enemy             |
|HP: 2500                                  |Halves: Gravity                    |
|MP: 100                                   |Weakness: Wind                     |
|Exp: 550                                  |Halves: Gravity                    |
|AP: 52                                    |Nullifies: Earth                   |
|Gil: 1000                                 |-----------------------------------|
|Drops: Power Wrist(100%)                  |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Steal: ---                                |Sleep, Poison, Slow, Darkness      |
|                                          '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: {Bodyblow}  [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 255 Base Damage]                     |
|         Big Wave    [All Enemies, Phys Atk, Water Element, 191.25 Base Dmg.] |
|         {Waterball} [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Inflicts 100% Imprisoned]             |
|         Moonstrike  [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 127.5 Base Damage]                   |
|         Tail Attack [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 127.5 Base Damage]                   |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: Bottomswell can be a decent challenge if you come unprepared. Surely|
|you remember the Pyramid attack from Reno? Bottomswell has a similar attack   |
|that imprisons your character, except there are two differences here. First of|
|all, 'Waterpolo' (as these balls are called) will gradually drain the affected|
|character from their HP like a reversed Regen would do. Secondly, the orb is  |
|destroyed by magic, not physical attacks. There's actually a third minor      |
|difference as well: You'll have the select the actual Waterpolo orb and *not* |
|the character. Only targeting the orb itself with magic will destroy it.      |
|                                                                              |
|With that cleared up, the rest of the fight shouldn't be all that hard. If you|
|set one character up with the Elemental - Choco/Mog combo in their weapon,    |
|then they'll be able to hit for twice as much damage. Graviballs also deal    |
|decent damage when used at the start of the fight. Of course, if you want to  |
|completely slaughter Bottomswell, a few castings of Beta make short work of   |
|the creature.                                                                 |
|                                                                              |
|Note: Bottomswell actually has three forms through it will dynamically cycle. |
|      Since the forms are difficult to distinguish from each other, we make no|
|      further mention of them other than in the attack notes.                 |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

With Bottomswell sunk to the bottom of the .. beach, the team still needs to
revive Priscilla while they can. Red XIII would make an excellent candidate, but
Cloud is instead asked to perform the CPR. This minigame is extremely easy if
you know what you're doing. Essentially, Cloud's lungs can fill op to 10
'breaths' per inhale. Cloud will fail to perform CPR if you don't press Square
to exhale as the bar reaches the maximum. Priscilla requires 41 'breaths' to
come back to consciousness, so you can have Cloud breathe up to the 9th breath
for five times in order to revive Priscilla.

Back in the village, talk to the woman in front of the house who offers the team
a place to stay for the night. When Cloud awakens, a mysterious voice tells him
to ask Tifa about Nibelheim five years ago. Follow Tifa outside.

<Fort Condor Note 2:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The second Fort Condor battle has an *extremely* short time span, and if you
wish to do it you must do so right now. Don't go to Priscilla but head straight
to Fort Condor with just Cloud as a party member. This makes random encounters
a bit more difficult, so remember to save a few times. The prize for this Fort
Condor battle is a Peace Ring (unless, of course, you missed the first battle,
in which case you receive the previous prize - a Magic Comb).
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In Junon, head over to your party and go upstairs. Priscilla will come outside
and hand Cloud a pendant with the Shiva Materia as a gift for rescuing her.
Head to the beach and talk to Priscilla, who'll give you a whistle to call Mr.
Dolphin whenever you like.

<Fort Condor Note 3:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Yes; Right after you get the whistle, just head back to Fort Condor once again
and do the third battle. The time span for this battle is once again rather
small. The prize for this battle is 'three Tincture, which are actually three
Ethers. Tinctures are from FF VI ...
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When you get in the water, Barret takes the PHS from you. To get to the top,
*don't move at all*. Simply blow the whistle twice and Mr. Dolphin jumps you
right to the top.

Cloud climbs up the airport and sees the Highwind for the first time. Make your
way to the barracks and you'll quickly be halted by an officer. Guess you'll
have no choice but to play along and follow the instructions to march in Rufus'
welcoming parade. Follow your captain to an alley and the parading minigame will
start.

Tip: It greatly helps if you set the message dialog speed to default.

Many people have a hard time scoring over 50%, but it's actually very simple.
When you gain control of Cloud, it's best to just run immediately downwards,
straight through the line of soldiers and take the empty spot. Walk to the left
while staying in line. Don't press circle until after the first message/command
appears. After this, simply press the circle button at the end of each message
("Now") to make the ratings shoot up.

Note: You *must* have the controller settings set to default in order to 
      successfully make this work.

Here are the possible prizes:
-----------------------------
<29%     = Grenade
30%-39%  = 6 Potions
40%-49%  = 6 Ethers
50%+     = 5000 Gil

<Perfect Game Note 9:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
If you're going for a perfect game, it's fair enough to include the best prizes
you can possibly get. In this case, go for the 5000 Gil.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

After the parade you're given another instruction for a send-off later on. Cloud
is best at winning, so the victory stance becomes the finishing move. You're now
given some free time to explore Junon. There are various shops and treasure to
be found, so take your time for a thorough exploration.

The first shop you'll come across is the Materia store, which sells two new
types of the shiny orbs: Seal and Revive. If you've got the money to spare
(which shouldn't be a problem if you've been selling Ethers) we suggest you buy
one of each. Down the alley is a weapon shop that sells decent weapons, although
you probably already have all of the weapons if you've been following our
stealing notes, with the exception of Red's Diamond Pin. You can find Rude of
the Turks chilling in the bar, and other than a casual item store which sells
Hi-Potions, there are no other shops of interest on this side of Junon.

The last door in this area leads to a housing area. Before you head up the
stairs, check out the rather concealed soldier standing near the stairs. He'll
lead you to the Beginner's Hall, and the ghosts of the people stayed behind in
case you needed to know anything else about the game. In all seriousness, this
is a place to ask anything basic regarding the game. Make sure you grab the
Enemy Skill Materia before leaving.

Head upstairs and search the second floor for a 1/35th Soldier, Mind Source and
Luck Source. For your information, the 1/35th Soldiers are nothing but a
collector's item, and there is no reward whatsoever for getting 12, 35, 99, or
whatever other random amount of them - they're simply collectibles. Head up the
third floor and collect the Power Source and Guard Source. Now that you've
explored this side of Junon, head down and follow the path to the other major
sector of Junon (and if you're quick, you'll see a group of people running to
the very end of this area.. Did some of them look .. familiar?).

The first door in this area leads to another bar with the Turks. The second one
leads to an Inn, Materia shop and accessory shop on the 1st, 2nd and 3rd floors
respectively. Only the accessory shop sells things of interest: Silver Glasses
protect against Darkness and Headband protects from Sleep. If you can spare the
money, buy one of each.

<Perfect Game Note 10:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Be sure to get at least one Headband. It will make your life easier soon.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The third door leads to several rooms. The first room houses a Speed Source and
you can find a 1/35 Soldier on the 2nd floor.

There's one last weapon store in this area, but for the time being it doesn't
sell any new equipment due to a wrong order of the store owner (come back here
on Disc 2). Head for the far end and you'll get to the docking area of cargo
vessels.

It is also here where the send-off for Rufus begins. The commander gives you the
orders, and you follow them by correctly pressing the button (and staying in
line with the other two soldiers). You get 10 points for every correct move,
except turning. You must still face the same direction as the others in order to
get points at all, however. Lastly, your victory pose nets you 30 points.

Note: The captain's commands are completely random. You get the following prizes
      for these results:

0-50 Points = Silver Glasses
60-90 Points = HP Plus Materia
100+ Points = Force Stealer

The Force Stealer is a sword for Cloud with double growth and 3 slots. By the
way, you can make Cloud move in mysterious ways when the send-off is over. He'll
do things like scratching his back with his gun, shrug, or touch his hip with
his hands and pose.

<Perfect Game Note 11:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
For a perfect game, aim for the best prize available - the Force Stealer.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It is up to you which of the two you prefer: A HP Plus Materia nets you an early
HP bonus, but the Force Stealer is a good sword with double growth. In any case,
quickly hop on the boat before it departs!

                     Oo=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                     ||       {12} To sunny places!       ||           CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:| Ether, All Materia, Wind Slash, White Cape(Boss Reward),        ||
||          | Ifrit Materia, Fire Ring, Motor Drive, Power Source.            ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

On the cargo boat, grab the Ether from the chest to your nearby left. The
character blocking the blue orb - an All Materia - is actually Yuffie who
suffers from heavy motion sickness. You can give her a tranquilizer, but she
won't move until later on. Go upstairs and talk with everyone, especially Tifa,
who's standing on the lookout post. On the deck you can also get your HP/MP
restored (tell him you're tired), or sell you a few basic items.

Talk to the sailor with .. Huh?! With a tail? That must be Red XIII! Head down
and speak with Aeris, who's located on the upper left and dressed as a Shinra
soldier. When she asks where Barret is, head back up on the deck and head to the
front. That's where he is, our little big sailor boy! After the alarm sounds,
head back to the previous screen and form a party. You'll randomly encounter
Shinra enemies in the cargo room now.

<Perfect Game Note 12:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This section requires a lot of time and is quite possibly one of the most time
consuming things of the challenge. You must steal 99 Shinra Beta's from Marines,
and yes, that takes a LOT of time. There are some things that speed it up
though: Use L4 Suicide on the Marines at the start of each battle and they'll
be inflicted with the Small status, only dealing 1 damage for the remainder of
the battle. Needless to say, this saves you a lot of healing time.

Equip a Headband on your stealing character (the one with the highest level),
and Silver Glasses on the other(s). Headband will protect against Sleep so you
can keep stealing with that character, and Silver Glasses protect against
Darkness so you can dispatch the Marines of whom you've already stolen.

The Shinra Beta is furthermore a decent piece of equipment which you may want to
equip on your characters.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Make sure you grab the All Materia that Yuffie was blocking earlier on and head
through the door on the left. First, climb up the ladder and walk over to the
right to get the Wind Slash from the chest - a good weapon for Yuffie with
double growth which we suggest to use. After properly equipping your team,
approach the Shinra officer and watch Sephiroth appear..who leaves Jenova*BIRTH
behind for the team to play with.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Jenova*BIRTH (Level: 23)            |Nullifies: Gravity, Poison         |
|HP: 4000                                  |-----------------------------------|
|MP: 110                                   |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Exp: 680                                  |Slow, Darkness                     |
|AP: 64                                    |                                   |
|Gil: 800                                  |                                   |
|Drops: White Cape(100%)                   |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Laser      [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 201 Base Damage]                      |
|         Tail Laser [All Enemies, Phys Atk, 201 Base Damage]                  |
|         W-Laser    [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 201 Base Damage]                      |
|         Gas        [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 201 Base Damage]                      |
|         Stop       [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=34MP, Can inflict Stop]           |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: Jenova BIRTH has no weaknesses to exploit, other than possibly Slow |
|(with a Spider Web item). Use your Summons, Limits, and Enemy Skills whenever |
|possible. Flame Thrower deals a fair amount of damage, as does Fire and Ice.  |
|Stay away from Poison spells and - if you're using Red XIII - take advantage  |
|of Red's Lunatic High Limit Break if he's learnt it; This puts everyone in    |
|Haste and greatly increases Red's evasion.                                    |
|                                                                              |
|Jenova*BIRTH will use its Tail Laser rather often, sometimes even multiple    |
|times in a row. Be quick to counter with a few Hi-Potions or Cure, and Aeris' |
|Healing Wind is always helpful in tricky scenarios. If you don't feel like    |
|losing, a few casts of Beta will mop the floor with Jenova*BIRTH.             |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

After the fight, immediately grab the Ifrit Materia and leave the boat.

The Cargo Boat arrives at Costa del Sol and sun puts the team in the mood to
celebrate vacation - or at least a short break. Depending on who's in your
current party, various little events happen all over Costa del Sol. These events
are only available during your very first visit.

If Aeris and Tifa are not in your party, they'll head of to tan on the beach.
If Red XIII's not in your party you can kick the soccer ball at him at the town
square! Barret can be found posing in his sailor suit in the bathroom of the Inn
and Yuffie will replace the Materia shop owner if she's not in your party. If
Tifa is in your party and you visit Johnny's new home then you'll get an extra
scene. Lastly, you can find Hojo at the beach - try to squeeze some info out of
him.

As for treasure, you can enter the villa connected to the bridge and visit the
basement to find a Fire Ring, Power Source and Motor Drive here. In case you're
looking for a residence, this villa is actually for sale since President
Shinra's unfortunate demise. The bargain price? 300000 Gil!

You can buy armor from a guy in the left corner of the Costal del Sol bar. The
Platinum Bangle may seem to have a poor defense rating, but it's the first (and
one of two) armor in the game with double Materia growth. We leave the choice of
purchase up to you.

After exploring the town, continue your journey on the World Map and head west/
northwest. Go over the mountain trail and the bridge until you reach Mount
Corel.

                     Oo=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                     ||         {13} Mount Corel          ||           CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:| Wizard Staff, Star Pendant, W Machine Gun, Turbo Ether,         ||
||          | Transform Materia, Phoenix Down(x10), Power Source, Mind Source,||
||          | Tent, Ether.                                                    ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

Tip: In this entire area, Matra Magic can dispatch most large groups of enemies,
     making it an excellent place to learn new Limit Breaks.

Follow the mountain trail and speak with the old man, who'll tell you he saw a
man in a black cape passing through not too long ago. Continue over the trail,
head past the Corel Reactor and make your way over the train tracks. Use the
Save Point in the next screen and carefully proceed over the tracks. There are a
few weak spots in the tracks, but if you want to grab some treasure, don't press
circle and let Cloud fall down. At this time - while falling down - hold the
left directional button and tap circle as fast as you can. If done correctly,
Cloud will be able to acquire the Wizard Staff as he climbs back up.

At the end of the upper tracks, grab the W Machine Gun from the chest and be on
your way. You'll find that you have two more opportunities to collect treasure
far below the tracks; The item on the right is a Star Pendant. The other two
items in this area are a Turbo Ether and the Transform Materia. Follow the upper
tracks first, and flip the switch in the cabin at the very end of the road to
lower the bridge. If you walk past the cabin, you'll hear birds chirping from
above; Climb the wall to reach a hidden Cockatolis nest. Cloud now faces the
ethical decision whether to take the treasure (10 Phoenix Downs) or not. If you
do take the treasure, you'll have to fight the mother Cockatolis. The little
ones are not harmed whatsoever.

Head back and cross the bridge. Follow the left tracks leading to the water and
enter a hidden cave under the tracks, which is now the home of an unemployed
miner. Grab the Tent, Mind Source and Power Source from around here. 

Tip: As you continue over the enormous bridge, try and steal a few Right Arms
     from Bombs. This is an *extremely powerful* battle item at this point of
     the game, and usually inflicts around 1500 damage to all enemies. Needless
     to say, these can definitely help you tackle a few optional challenges
     along the road. After your stealing adventures, finally enter the destroyed
     town of North Corel.

Looks like Barret has a history with this town; A man punches him right in the
face while he does nothing to prevent it. What's going on?

The shops in North Corel sell little of interest, although you may want to
purchase a Force Stealer for Cloud at the weapon store if you went with the
HP Plus Materia during the Rufus sendoff back at Junon. There's no need to
purchase any additional copies of Transform, as you'll get another copy soon
enough.

You can find a rather well hidden Ether in the home on the right: You need to
wait until the woman in that house walks to the right. Then, stand next to her
and wait for her to pass you. You can now access the pot in the corner, which
holds the Ether. This is one of the most obscure treasures in FF7, and although
other websites that have been grabbing information from this guide have since
added it, not many people knew about this treasure years ago.

When you're ready, exit to the Ropeway by the lower left path of the area (with
a sign pointing towards the Gold Saucer). Barret gives a brief overview of what
happened many years ago in North Corel, and the team heads off to the Gold
Saucer afterwards.

Note: Optionally, you can also head down the right path to visit a new part
      of the worldmap. The creatures here aren't particularly special, but there
      is one exception. There are Chocobo tracks on the east side of the desert
      surrounding the Gold Saucer (coming from Mount Corel, the Chocobo tracks
      are on your far left end of the desert). It's possible to encounter the
      Harpy enemy here, but only in a Chocobo battle, so you'll have to equip
      the Chocobo Lure Materia. It's a fairly powerful foe, so be sure you're
      fully healed, especially if you want to learn a new Enemy Skill: Aqualung.
      This hits the entire party for roughly 1000 points of damage, so again,
      be sure to prepare yourself for it. While it's also possible to get the
      skill later (from Harpies in the world map desert), now is the absolute
      earliest point in the game to get this quite powerful water-based skill.

                 Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                 ||  {14} The Gold Saucer and Corel Prison   ||        CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:| Silver Armlet(Boss Reward), Ramuh Materia.                      ||
||----------|                                                                 ||
|| Other:   | Turtle's Paradise Flyer No. 3.                                  ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

Trivia: The Ropeway changes direction in this one-time only cutscene. Its
        propellers are placed upwards when leaving/departing, but they're facing
        the other way in the longer scene. This is a small goof up.

There are a few things you should know about the Gold Saucer. First of all, the
major currency of the Gold Saucer is GP (Gold Points). While you can use Gil to
access some attractions, several places require GP to buy and/or access things.
For example, in order to use the Save Point just outside the entrance, you must
pay up 5 GP in order to make use of it.

Note: Later on in the game you can buy GP from a mysterious man who will
      randomly appear from behind the small house behind the Save Point.
      He will *never* show up before you get the airship, however, and even
      then he only appears with about a 1 out of 8 chance. We mention this just
      in case you were wondering why he wouldn't show up right now - it is
      because he can't.

Talk to the lady near the entrance and choose between a one time pass (3000 gil)
and a lifetime pass (30000 gil). Go with the first; You can get the lifetime
pass later on. After Barret's departure, choose a party member to hang out with
and have some fun! (You can also continue with the game, but don't be a party
pooper and follow us instead!)

There's nothing to do at the Event or Round Square at this time, so skip those.
At the Ghost Square you can enter the Ghost Hotel and read Turtle's Paradise
Flyer No. 3 (only three more to go). You can also shop at the item shop, which
has more items than any shop you've seen before.

At the Chocobo Square you can bet on Chocobos in competing races. It's not very
worthwhile to spend a lot of money betting right now, as you can join in the
Chocobo race yourself later - for free.

The most variety can be found at Wonder Square. Upon entering you'll meet Cait
Sith, a small little robotic cat riding a giant furry moogle. He initially comes
equipped with the Manipulate Materia, which is a very useful addition to your
arsenal. He's eager to join the party, so it can't be helped.

Go upstairs and you'll be at the heart of the actual Wonder Square. Many mini
games can be attempted here, and each has its own mechanics or details. For more
information regarding each mini game, check the Gold Saucer section.

If you're looking to make some big GP during your very first visit, there are
little options. Complete Mog's House (feed Mog 5 Kupo Nuts and 3 Kupo Nuts
respectively) and talk to the man who was looking over your shoulder to receive
a one-time only 30 GP. You also receive 10 GP for every time you finish the
G-bike and score over 10000 points (with a Speed Source thrown in as a one-time
only prize). If you get adept at the Super Dunk mini game, this will be your
major GP income: You can get up to 300 GP per game! This is enough to purchase
a lifetime Gold Ticket for the Gold Saucer. The lady sells this, along with
several other pricey items. Don't ever buy the ??? item - this is a Carob Nut
and there are much easier methods of acquiring one when you need it.

Visit the Speed Square with at least 10 GP in the pocket and give it a shot.
You'll shoot targets whilst riding in a fast rollercoaster - check the Gold
Saucer section for all the details you'd possibly like.

<Perfect Game Note 13:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You don't have to do this right away, but make sure you get the Umbrella before
you get the airship (or simpler said, try to get it on Disc 1). You'll need to
score 5000+ points in order to win the Umbrella.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Set foot in the Battle Square to proceed with the story. The team finds all
employees shot, and a barely alive girl manages to brabble '..man with a gun
arm..', this doesn't sound good! Dio - the owner of the Gold Saucer - finds the
team amongst the dead bodies and assumes they are guilty. Next thing you know it
you're in the Corel Prison, a place where no one gets in or out.

Corel Prison:
-------------
There are random encounters in the Corel Prison; Be wary of Bandits - they steal
items from you like Vice and Prowlers did earlier in the game.

If you want more information, inquire with Mr. Coates in the truck. You can use
the driver seat to rest. The house on the lower right is a bar and item store.
Barret can be found in the house above it. After Barret clears the story up for
the team, form a party with Barret in it. If you're not planning on using Cait
Sith as a member, remove his Silver Armlet and Manipulate Materia and give them
to Barret or Cloud. Make sure to give Barret a long range weapon and place him
in the back row if he isn't already.

The northern area of the prison has an empty tube with an empty chest and a
skeleton of a hound in it. The skeleton resembles an enemy called Test Zero,
which could be encountered in this tube in the first Japanese Version, and was
originally used to test the game's battle system. Similarly, the programmers
also used this area with Pyramid enemies. Lastly, although this isn't actually
visible in-game, one of the programmers left behind a drawing of a red man.
Unfortunately there is absolutely nothing to be done here other than visiting
the place for fun.

When you reach the desert border, head immediately right to get to a junkyard.
This is a good opportunity to encounter Death Claws and learn the enemy skill
Laser. This is essentially a Demi 2 spell against a single enemy, with a cheaper
MP cost (and earlier in the game too). It halves an enemy's HP unless they're
immune to Gravity. If you don't learn this skill now, take note that the next
opportunity to learn it won't be until Disc 3. You can manipulate Death Claws to
make the learning process easier.

Tip: You can learn Matra Magic on the 2nd Enemy Skill from Bullmotors here.

Note: If you enter the desert itself you can still return south when you're in
      the first screen. If you proceed through several screens, reaching the
      Corel Prison by foot becomes extremely hard. Your best bet is to switch
      between screens until you run into a Chocobo Cart who offers you a ride
      to the Corel Prison.

      Visiting the desert can have some benefits, however. You can actually
      encounter two unique enemies in the desert - which is reason enough to at
      least give that a try. You'll know when you encounter a Land Worm - a
      creature that was obviously inspired by the film 'Tremors'. There's not
      much to these enormous beasts, but you *can* steal a Turbo Ether from it,
      which - although it doesn't sell well - is a fine item by itself.

      You can also encounter Cactuars, although the chance for encountering them
      is very low: 6.25%. If you *do* however encounter one, you should know
      that these little cactus enemies are extremely shy and will escape from
      battle rather quickly. They are furthermore immune to all elements and
      status effects, and they *furthermore* dodge 7/8th of all physical
      attacks! So, are you wondering how to beat these little suckers then?

      Well, your arsenal is far from complete so your options are limited.
      Attacking with Matra Magic or Choco/Mog *should* solve your problems,
      since they're both non-elemental magical attacks which won't be dodged.
      If you've escaped 200+ times by now (which we deem highly unlikely), then
      Chocobuckle will also instantly kill the creatures, who only have 200 HP.
      When you beat a Cactuar you'll be rewarded with a whopping of 10000 Gil.

      Trivia: Cactuars will never use their 1000 Needles attack, although they
      technically have it in their arsenal. Their twin brothers Cactuers (which
      you can encounter much later in the game) *do* use that attack.


Make your way through the scrapyard and the team reaches Dyne, an old friend of
Barret. Looks like Dyne has completely lost it as he intends to destroy every
single thing on the planet.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Dyne (Level: 23)                    |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|HP: 1200                                  |-----------------------------------|
|MP: 20                                    |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Exp: 600                                  |Sleep, Poison, Stop, Slow,         |
|AP: 55                                    |Paralyse, Darkness                 |
|Gil: 750                                  |                                   |
|Drops: Silver Armlet(100%)                |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Needle Gun [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 165 Base Damage]                      |
|         S-Mine     [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 171.875 Base Damage]                  |
|         Molotov Cocktail [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 178.75 Base Damage]             |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: You'll fight with Barret alone, so make sure to keep Barret's HP    |
|above 350 at all times to be safe. Start the fight by poisoning Dyne and      |
|pound away with magic and physical attacks. Limit Breaks inflict a solid      |
|amount of damage, and if you really want to destroy Dyne, a few castings of   |
|Beta can easily arrange this.                                                 |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

Dyne can't stand living in this world anymore, and he'd rather join his wife
Eleanor in the afterlife. There's nothing Barret can do about this. With the
pendant that Dyne leaves behind, set foot in Mr. Coates truck and you'll be
given the opportunity to participate in the Chocobo Races. If you manage to win
the race, the team will be free to leave the prison.

After the battle and the scenes you'll be riding the elevator to the Chocobo
Races. Esther can explain how the race works and what the controls are, which
could prove helpful if it's your first time ever to participate.

Tip: You can regain your Chocobo's stamina by holding R1+R2 the whole race.

Note: In the jockey room, *make sure you get the RAMUH MATERIA*. This is lying
in the right corner of the room. If you don't get it now, you'll never be able
to get it (which has consequences for Master Materia much later on as well).

When the race starts, press and hold R1+R2, then press and hold square to make
your Chocobo go faster. When you near the finish line, which is around the space
area with stars, hold down circle for a final dash.

If you win the race then that's great - you're free to go! If you lose you'll
be given another opportunity to win the race. In either case, once you've won,
Dio will apologize in a written letter and gives you a buggy that can cross
deserts and shallow rivers.

                 Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                 ||    {15} Optional: Fun with the Buggy     ||        CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:  | Bolt Ring, Sprint Shoes.                                      ||
||------------|                                                               ||
|| Key Items: | Mythril.                                                      ||
||------------|                                                               ||
|| Fort Condor|                                                               ||
|| Treasure:  | Megalixir.                                                    ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

Quick To-Do List:
=================
o Enemy Skill: Aqualung
o Enemy Skill: Big Guard
o Battle Square Prizes
o Enemy Skill: White Wind
o [Fort Condor Battle #4]
o Sleeping Man: Bolt Ring
o Enemy Skills for 2nd Materia
o Superb training area

Enemy Skill: Aqualung
=====================
First of all, drive around in the desert on the world map to encounter a Harpy.
This creature can cast the Enemy Skill Aqualung, which is the first (and one of
the few) water based attack(s) you can get. Indeed, only the summon Leviathan
(gotten much later in the game) and the item Dragon Scales (which can also be
gotten only later in the game) are water based attacks available to the party.
Aqualung inflicts a great deal of damage at this point of the game - around 1000
HP to all targeted opponents - so make sure you're fully healed.

Enemy Skill: Big Guard
======================
Drive south and cross the river. Head for one of the southern beaches and get
into an encounter with Beachplugs.  To learn the skill Big Guard, manipulate one
of the Beachplugs and have them cast it on your party. Big Guard is by far one
of the best Enemy Skills as it casts Barrier, MBarrier and Haste on your entire
party.

Tip: There's no one home at the stand-alone house in the area around here, but
     remember it for later.

Battle Square Prizes
====================
Note: You might want to get the other Enemy Skills first before attempting the
      sometimes tricky Battle Square battles.

If you head back to the Gold Saucer, do so by entering North Corel and go up
with the ropeway. With the Battle Square reopened it is now possible to win
several awesome prizes including the Championship Belt, which is an expensive
yet powerful accessory that increases Strength and Vitality +30. Three of those
would be nice..

Before you fight in any of the battles, talk to the lady at the base of the
stairs outside the Battle Square and she'll tell you that she only likes
fighters that aren't all talk. If you speak with her again after beating all 8
sequential battles during a round in the Battle Square, she'll give you the
Sprint Shoes accessory, which puts a character automatically in Haste.

To win the battles, definitely get the White Wind enemy skill (see below), as
well as Beta, Aqualung and Big Guard. What's amazing about White Wind is that it
also cures status ailments. A healthy supply of Ethers is essential, and you'll
also want to stock up on Smoke Bombs (stolen from Slaloms, see the 'superb
training area' paragraph below) and Right Arms (stolen from Bombs on the
enormous bridge at Mt. Corel. Right Arms deal massive damage to all enemies on
the screen, while Smoke Bombs allow you to escape the fight while still getting
the BP for that fight (thus they are best used in the last round).

It's important to note that only the 7th and 8th rounds really net you good BP
rewards, so try to at least make it to those rounds. Good bonuses at that point
are 'All Materia Broken' (10000), 'Green Materia Broken' (9425), 'Weapon Broken'
(8246), 'Item Command Sealed' (7201) and 'Purple Materia Broken' (6645).

Enemy Skill: White Wind
=======================
Drive all the way north/northeast, past the Gold Saucer, and across the
river. Drive with the Buggy INTO Costa Del Sol, and head to the cargo boat.
Speak with the sailor near the boat and offer him 100 Gil to sail back to
the eastern continent. This allows you to do several optional things there.

Tip: When you reach Junon you can call a free heli-taxi by speaking with the
     sailor in the white uniform in the middle of the street. The taxi can take
     you to the next part of Junon or out of town. This saves you a few minutes
     compared to walking all the way to the World Map.

Back on the World Map, keep your eyes open for a Zemzelett (a big white bird).
When you encounter one, manipulate it and have it cast White Wind on you. This
skill heals the entire party for as much as the caster's current HP. For
example, if Cloud has 900 HP when he casts it, the spell will heal the party for
900 HP. The spell furthermore removes many bad status effects.

<Fort Condor Note 4:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Now is a good time to do the 4th battle. The reward is a Megalixir.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Sleeping Man: Mythril & Bolt Ring
=================================
There is also a cave behind a river to the west/northwest of the Mythril Mines
which you might've noticed earlier. Now you can reach it by using the buggy to
cross the shallow part of the river. In the cave is a sleeping man who will tell
you either how many times you've fought battles, how many times you have
escaped, or that large materia needs high level materia..

What use is this to us? If the last two digits of the amount of battles you're
fought in total are the same, the man will wake up and give you an item. If the
numbers are odd (11, 33, 55, 77, 99) you will get the Key Item 'Mythril', which
will be useful later. If the last two numbers are even - with the notable
exception of double zero, which leaves 22, 44, 66, 88) you'll get a Bolt Ring,
which is an accessory that nullifies all Bolt attacks.

You can only hold one Mythril at a time, but you can acquire a new piece of
Mythril if you don't have one at the time.  The Bolt Ring is only given once.


Enemy Skills for 2nd Materia
============================
If you wish to get Flame Thrower, Beta, L4 Suicide and Chocobuckle for the
second Enemy Skill Materia, backtrack through the Mythril Mines. Equip the
person who needs to learn Beta with the Fire Ring and you shouldn't have too
much trouble with learning it. If you want to learn Matra Magic on your 2nd
Enemy Skill you'll have to backtrack to the stony plains around Midgar.

After getting these Enemy Skills you're mostly done with all optional things at
this time. Go back to Junon and drive into town with your Buggy. If you're
looking for a shortcut to quickly get to Costa del Sol, head to the beach and
blow the whistle to call Mr. Dolphin. The game will now give you the option to
automatically board the cargo boat. This option stays available as long as you
still have the buggy, and becomes unavailable when you get the airship.

Tip: If you're looking for a great training area, don't board the cargo boat
     just yet and read the next paragraph.

Superb training area
====================
If you want to do some serious training, pay the Shinra Soldier 10 gil and ride
the elevator up. In upper Junon, make your way to the long gray alley at the end
of the streets in which a group of soldiers are being drilled. You can turn the
alarm on by flipping the switch at the red alarm light on the wall. When you've
done so, tough enemies can be encountered in this alley which normally only
become available much later in the game. A quick overview of these enemies:

       Slalom: 1600 HP,  30 MP, 700 EXP, 70 AP, 1500 Gil, Steal: Smoke Bomb.
Death Machine: 2500 HP, 150 MP  900 EXP, 80 AP, 1200 Gil, Steal: W Machine Gun.

Tips: The Slalom halves Water, so instead of using Aqualung you might want to
      resort to castings of Beta. As for the Smoke Bomb you can steal from them,
      consider grabbing a few of these as they can help you win the Battle
      Square more easily (as they allow you to escape and keep your BP). Lastly,
      the W Machine Gun is a Double Materia Growth weapon for Barret which can
      be stolen from Death Machines.

You can easily level your Materia here, especially in Double Growth weapons,
plus the Exp and Gil are great as well. Just make sure you fully heal after
every single battle and wipe out groups of Slalom quickly with several castings
of Beta. If you plan on levelling for a while, note that if you master an 'All'
Materia in a Double Growth weapon, you can sell it for 1.4 MILLION Gil, which
takes about 150 battles. Worth it? That's for you to decide. Whenever you're
ready, head back to the western continent.

                 Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                 ||           {16} Gongaga Village           ||        CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:|  Fairy Tale(Boss Reward), X-Potion(Boss Reward), Titan Materia, ||
||          |  X-Potion, White M-phone, Deathblow Materia.                    ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

From the Gold Saucer, drive south over the river and - although this is
completely optional - head for the destroyed town surrounded by forest. As soon
as you enter you'll run into Reno and Rude of the Turks.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Reno (Level: 22)                    |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|HP: 2000                                  |-----------------------------------|
|MP: 80                                    |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Exp: 660                                  |Sleep, Poison, Stop, Slow,         |
|AP: 60                                    |Paralyse, Darkness                 |
|Gil: 1500                                 |                                   |
|Drops: Fairy Tale(100%)                   |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Short Staff [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 73.75 Base Damage]                   |
|         Turk Light  [1 Enemy, 256.5 Base Damage]                             |
|         Electropod  [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, Lightning Element, 177 Base Damage]  |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Name: Rude (Level: 23)                    |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|HP: 2000                                  |-----------------------------------|
|MP: 135                                   |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Exp: 720                                  |Sleep, Poison, Stop, Slow,         |
|AP: 70                                    |Paralyse, Darkness                 |
|Gil: 2000                                 |                                   |
|Drops: X-Potion(100%)                     |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Shoulder Attack [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 204 Base Damage]                 |
|         Fire            [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=4MP, 174 Base Damage]        |
|         Cure            [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=5MP, 458 Base Healing]       |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: Despite the fact you're facing two Turks at once, this fight isn't  |
|all that difficult. A good opening move would be the defensive Big Guard,     |
|followed by Poison to both Turks. Finish the fight with Summons and hard      |
|hitting Enemy Skills such as Aqualung or Beta and they'll retreat in no time. |
|                                                                              |
|You may want to defeat Reno and Rude quickly after each other. If either one  |
|of them is defeated while the other still has HP left, the remaining Turk will|
|escape one turn after their retreated/defeated comrade has left the battle.   |
|This causes them to leave no battle spoils. Therefore it's best to defeat both|
|of them at once.                                                              |
|                                                                              |
|Trivia: If Tifa's in your party you'll notice that Rude will attack her less  |
|often than he attacks other party members. In fact, he'll only attack Tifa if |
|all other party members are KO'd, and even then there's a 1/3rd chance that he|
|won't attack Tifa during his turn. Rude has a little crush on her, you see..  |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

After the fight, follow the path leading up. Proceed to the far end of the
destroyed reactor and Scarlet and Tseng suddenly enter the scene. Check the spot
that Scarlet inspected to reach out for the Titan Summon Materia. Not what you
call junky Materia, right?

Backtrack to the jungle and head down the other path. Enter the town of Gongaga
by going north. If Aeris and/or Tifa are in your party, an extra scene will
occur when you enter the house on the lower right. The other house on the right
is an item shop, while the house on the lower left is an accessory shop which
also sells Materia. You don't have Mystify and Time yet, so you might want to
consider buying them. You can also climb the pole to visit the weapon store,
which doesn't sell much good.

The Inn is located on the upper left of town, and 80 Gil is the price to rest
up. Grab the X-Potion from the chest here, then explore the house on the upper
right in which you can find the White M-Phone (for Cait Sith). When you return
to the jungle, exit the area by taking the left path. Make sure you grab the
yellow Deathblow Materia on your way out.

Deathblow deals a critical blow - and critical attacks deal twice the amount of
damage - but only if the attack hits. The Deathblow command also reduces your
accuracy by 1/3rd, so only use it with weapons that have a high accuracy.

Back on the World Map, drive southwest through the forests and cross the river.
While crossing forests, take your time to learn the Frog Song Enemy Skill from
Touch Me's (frog enemies). This is a pretty decent skill that inflicts Sleep and
Frog on your opponent at the expense of only 5 MP. It may prove useful soon.

<Fort Condor Note 5:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Park the buggy far away from the town in the canyon (Cosmo Canyon). If you
don't do this then the buggy will break down and this means you cannot do the
next Fort Condor Battle shortly, which would be a shame.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Tip:
----
If you want to date Barret at a later date, consider putting him into your party
*before* entering Cosmo Canyon.

Drive to the large canyon, and enter Cosmo Canyon, home of Red XIII.

                 Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                 ||    {17} Cosmo Canyon & Cave of the Gi    ||        CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:  | Elixir, Added Effect Materia, Black M-phone, Ether, X-Potion, ||
||            | Fairy Ring, Turbo Ether, Gravity Materia, Seraph Comb(Story), ||
||            | Wizer Staff(Boss Reward).                                     ||
||------------|                                                               ||
|| Other:     | Turtle's Paradise Flayer No. 4 & No. 5.                       ||
||------------|                                                               ||
|| Fort Condor|                                                               ||
|| Treasure:  | 5x Hi-Potion, 5x Hi-Potion.                                   ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

When you arrive in Cosmo Canyon, answer truthfully that you aren't familiar
around this place. Nanaki - the *real* name of Red XIII - gives the green light
and the party is now allowed inside.

Tip:
----
If you want to date Barret (and had him in your party when you entered Cosmo
Canyon), there's a trick to infinitely boost his affection value towards Cloud.
Look for Barret in the room behind Tiger Lily's Weapon Shop and choose "Go on",
followed by "Yeah, whatever...". You can now exit and re-enter the room to
repeat this procedure. The first reply gives you +3 affection points when
chosen, and the second option doesn't do anything except aborting the
conversation. Since it you can infinitely repeat this procedure, this allows you
to greatly boost Barret's affection value.

Explore the Inn first, which you can enter by the door on the right. Read the
Turtle's Paradise Flyer No. 5 upstairs and look for an Elixir in the bedroom
corner to the lower left. Back outside, ignore the item shop accessible from
the ladder and follow the steps on the left like Nanaki did.

Inside, read the Turtle's Paradise Flyer No. 4 next to the weapon shop and feel
free to upgrade your main party's equipment. Make your way up to the next floor
and look around the Materia shop that sells HP and MP Plus Materia. These can
dramatically increase your HP and MP, so they're definitely worth buying.

Climb the ladder and head inside the observatory where you'll meet Bugenhagen,
Nanaki's 129-year-old grandfather, who uses a green floating machine to get
around places. After the acquaintance, head down and go inside the kitchen to
find Cait Sith. You can talk to him (or any other party member) to form a team.
When you've made your choice, go back to Bugenhagen and listen well to his
teachings.

It appears the Planet is in pain somehow. Return to the campfire outside and
speak to everyone, lastly to Red XIII. Form a party and follow Bugenhagen to
the hall with a large steel door.

<Fort Condor Note 6:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Now's the time to do the 5th battle at Fort Condor. You can only travel back to
the eastern continent if you didn't let the buggy break down. Otherwise, this
battle can never be fought. The prize for your long trip is 5 Hi-Potions, even
though the game tells you the prize is five "Potion". This is a mis-translation.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Talk to Bugenhagen and climb down the ropes until you reach the cave of the Gi.
The undead roam this cave, many of which cast Death-Sentence, an Enemy Skill
that brings a timer of 60 seconds above the inflicted target, dealing Death as
it runs out. Try and learn it on your Enemy Skill Materia. While on the subject
of Enemy Skills, take note that Frog Song works wonders around here.

Continue right until you get to an area with several smaller caves, which all
house a weird looking rock. Breaking this open results in a battle, with the
exception of the third cave you walk across - it's on your left side as you pass
by. Breaking that rock opens up a secret entrance that leads to the next part of
the cave.

In the next area, head left and carefully *walk* over the golden substance on
the floor. If you run over the golden goo, Cloud will slip and slam into the
wall from which spikes are erected, inflicting actual damage to your HP. Head
down, backtrack to the previous screen and collect the Added Effect Materia from
the upper path.

This Materia works in a similar way the Elemental Materia works, except that you
can now pair status effects into your weapon or armor.

Proceed north and head down the stairs to collect the Black M-phone in a chest
to the south. Lastly, grab the Ether from a chest to the north before heading
inside the next area.

You'll get to an intersection with five tunnels. Things are much simpler than
they seem: The middle tunnel is a dead end, and the two outermost tunnels are
connected. This leaves one tunnel on the left and right, with the one on the
right being optional. It leads to a chest with an X-Potion (which will prove
extremely useful soon), but you'll have to battle a tough creature called
Stinger as you destroy its web.

Fortunately there's an easy solution to Stingers. While their Sting Bomb attack
deals enormous amounts of damage, casting Frog Song on these semi-boss enemies
will render them completely harmless! Otherwise, Poison is a decent alternative.

Follow the last path and explore the lower left of the screen: Walk through the
cave and move Cloud to the right in order to reach a chest with a Fairy Ring
inside. Head to the far north of this area and cross through the wall on your
left to reach another chest with a Turbo Ether.

Prepare yourself for a boss fight. Equip the Fire Ring on someone and place the
Fire-Elemental Materia combination in someone's *armor*. Approach the demon face
and it'll come to life.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Gi Nattak (Level: 29)               |Weakness: Holy, Restorative        |
|HP: 5500                                  |Nullifies: Earth, Gravity, Water   |
|MP: 200                                   |-----------------------------------|
|Exp: 1400                                 |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|AP: 150                                   |Slow, Darkness                     |
|Gil: 3000                                 |                                   |
|Drops: Wizer Staff(100%)                  |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Spear Attack [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 566.5625 Base Damage]               |
|         Drain        [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=1MP, 121.5 Base Damage/Healing] |
|         Aspil        [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=1MP, Absorbs MP,                |
|                       40.5 Base MP Damage/Healing]                           |
|         DeBarrier    [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=12MP, Cures Barrier, MBarrier,  |
|                       Reflect, Shield]                                       |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Name: Soul Fire (x2) (Level: 21)          |Weakness: Holy, Wind               |
|HP: 1300                                  |Nullifies: Earth, Poison,          |
|MP: 220                                   |Gravity, Water                     |
|Exp: 200                                  |Absorb: Fire                       |
|AP: 10                                    |-----------------------------------|
|Gil: 100                                  |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Drops: Phoenix Down                       |Stop, Slow, Darkness               |
|Steal: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Take Over [Soul Fire will be inside a character, casting Fire2]      |
|         Fire2     [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=22MP, 277.5 Base Damage]           |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: Gi Nattak is a powerful boss, but equipment that protects against   |
|Fire will make this fight a whole lot easier. The Soul Fires can move inside  |
|your characters, continuously dealing Fire damage while in this state. You do |
|not lose control of your characters, however.                                 |
|                                                                              |
|Since Gi Nattak is an undead enemy, this places you in an advantageous        |
|situation. Throwing an X-Potion at Gi Nattak will instantly kill the boss.    |
|Phoenix Downs can also instantly kill it, but only have a 1/4 chance to work. |
|Healing items such as Hi-Potions inflict damage to the boss, as does the      |
|Enemy Skill White Wind (which also inflicts Slow and Darkness on the boss).   |
|With all these options you shouldn't have any problems with Gi Nattak.        |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

Grab the Gravity Materia after battle and exit to the north. Red XIII now learns
the truth behind his father Seto. Enjoy the incredible scenes and continue your
journey afterwards. You'll find that the buggy has been repaired if it broke
down earlier.

Note: Red XIII receives the Seraph Comb after these events. This is a *very*
      powerful weapon with 68 Atk, making Red XIII a wise choice as a party
      member.

<Fort Condor Note 7:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
After finishing the Cave of the Gi, return to Fort Condor to do another battle.
Again the reward is 5 Hi-Potions, even though the game says five "Potion".
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Trivia: After the buggy has been fixed, repeatedly talk to the mechanic who
        fixed it and you'll get the option of giving him 1000 Gil.  Doing so
        will prompt him to tell you the secret location of the Elixir you
        already found by use of this guide, but this is an other way of getting
        to know this.


                 Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                 ||     {18} Nibelheim & Shinra Mansion      ||        CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure: | Luck Source, Elixir, Turbo Ether, Platinum Fist, 1 Gil,        ||
||           | Luck Source, Silver M-phone, Twin Viper, Enemy Launcher,       ||
||           | Magic Source,  Destruct Materia, Odin Materia, Cosmo Memory    ||
||           | (Boss Reward).                                                 ||
||-----------|                                                                ||
|| Key Items:| Key to the Basement.                                           ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

<Perfect Game Note 14:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Now is essentially your first chance to steal Vagyrisk Claws from Bagrisks.
The Vagyrisk Claw is an elusive item, and Bagrisks themselves are fairly hard
to find on their own as well.

These green, serpent-like creatures are only found on dirt/rocky areas on the
World Map in this area, but are not found in the dirt areas around the actual
canyon, thus excluding all places with an amber glow.

Head west from Cosmo Canyon all the way until you reach a small area of dirt
that does qualify, and look around for Bagrisks. Stealing a Vagyrisk Claw from
a Bagrisk isn't an easy task, however. As a matter of fact, your chances will
never be any higher than 4.23% chance of stealing a Vagyrisk Claw, and this is
with a Character at Lvl 11. You'll usually steal Softs from Bagrisks instead.

Note that Level 77 is the very last level you can steal a Vagyrisk Claw from
Bagrisks. Level 78 and higher will not allow it, and for those planning ahead,
equipping the Steal Glove will nullify your chances no matter what your levels.

Your goal is to steal 99 of them! Obviously, using the W-Item trick as described
will help you achieve this more easily. In that case, stealing one Vagyrisk Claw
is sufficient enough.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Cross the northern river and enter Nibelheim, Cloud and Tifa's hometown. Huh!?
Wasn't this place burned down five years ago by Sephiroth? Something fishy is
going on.. Let's do some exploring.

Enter the first house on the left. The inn keeper is telling a story that is
rather inconsistent with the one Cloud told the team, so which one is true?
Talk to the man in a black cape in the back and you'll receive a Luck Source.

Head into the house next to the inn and speak with the black-caped figure near
the fireplace to get an Elixir. Back outside, going clockwise, head inside
Cloud's house for a short scene. In Tifa's house, the black-caped figure
in the back will give you a Turbo Ether. The one upstairs nets you a Platinum
Fist. While you're here, play the piano and try to recall the tune from the
flashback.

Here's how it goes: X, Square, Triangle, R1+Triangle, R1+Square, X, Square,
Triangle, R1+X, O, X, Square, X and press start to end.

If you do this several times you'll randomly receive Tifa's secret savings of
1 gil. The very last house has two black caped kids living upstairs, and one of
them gives you a Luck Source.

The Shinra Mansion (Optional) {OPT-5}:
--------------------------------------
Head inside the Shinra Mansion and give someone a Peace Ring to protect them
against Confusion. Dorky Faces use an attack which causes Confusion, and they
aren't wary of using it often. As for the Jersey enemy, try and learn the great
Enemy Skill ???? from them. They will never use this attack after being attacked
once, so don't do anything during battle until you've learnt the skill.

The ???? Enemy Skill is another oddball. It does damage based on how much damage
you incurred: Max HP - Current HP = Damage. In other words, if your Max HP is
1000 and you only have 1 HP left, then ???? will inflict 999 damage. It is
considered a physical attack, and it can be extremely powerful and helpful when
you're about to get your ass handed to you.

There are quite a few things for you to do in the Shinra Mansion. Let's start
with finding the regular treasure. From the main hall, head into the room on the
right and grab the Silver M-phone in the next screen. Back at the main hall,
enter through the northern door and collect the Twin Viper from a chest. Go
upstairs and find an Enemy Launcher in a chest on the left section of the
mansion. The upper room contains a safe, but we'll get to that in a moment.

Continue to explore the right section of the mansion and grab a Magic Source
from the chest before heading to the basement by the secret entrance. Enter the
library in the basement where you'll meet Sephiroth once again. He's quick to
leave the team behind, but also throws the Destruct Materia at you.

You can either depart for Mount Nibel at this time, or you can do several highly
rewarding optional things. So, you want to know how to open up that safe in the
left section of the mansion? There are several hints scattered all over the
place which reveal the numbers of the safe. The small room next to the entrance
hints at this.

Hint 1 leads to the back of the lid, of the chest where you found the Enemy
Launcher in, nearby the safe. It says: (1) 'Right 36'.

Hint 2 leads to the floor near the piano. The piano is found in the area north
from the main hall, in the room to the left. It says: (2) 'Left 10'.

Hint 3 leads upstairs, to the right part. It tells you to take a specific amount
of steps - instead, just look around the entrance of the room with the chest
that held the Magic Source and tap the circle button. You should find the next
clue around there. It reads: (3) 'Right 59'.

Hint 4 is actually not a visible option, but you can select it, and it just says
the number right away: (4) 'Right 97'.

Now you have the combination of the safe:
(1) Right 36, (2) Left 10, (3) Right 59, (4) Right 97.

Now is a good time to save your game and heal up. When you're ready, go to the
safe and unlock it. You only have 20 seconds to do this, so you've got to be
fast. It is important to note that you CANNOT go past ANY of the numbers at any
time or your attempt will fail. It might take you a couple of tries, but when
you get it right the safe opens and it's time for a boss fight.

<Perfect Game Note 15:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
There's an important point to take note of here.  Since Lost Number drops the
unique and (normally) non-duplicatable 'Cosmo Memory', you'll want to
duplicate it by means of a glitch that allows you to fight bosses twice.  In
order to do this you must skip a random battle by opening the menu the instant
the game wants to give you a random encounter on a field map.  More information
can be found in section {AP-4}, under the repeating boss glitch paragraph.

In short, you'll want to save outside on the world map and enter the mansion
by running as efficiently towards the boss (take the shortest route).  Note when
you run into an encounter, then reload your save game and run down the same
path.  You'll notice that the encounter happens at the same spot (if all you did
was running in the most efficient way possible - no opening menus or anything).
This allows you to skip that battle more easily and then proceed to Lost Number.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Lost Number (Level: 35)             |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|HP: 7000                                  |-----------------------------------|
|MP: 300                                   |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Exp: 2000                                 |Poison, Stop, Slow, Paralysed,     |
|AP: 80                                    |Darkness                           |
|Gil: 2000                                 |                                   |
|Drops: Cosmo Memory(100%)                 |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: 1st Form:                                                            |
|         Punch [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 341 Base Damage]                           |
|         Bolt2 [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=22MP, Lightning, 525 Base Damage]      |
|                                                                              |
|         Magical Form:                                                        |
|         Tentacle [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 852.5 Base Damage]                      |
|         Aspil    [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=1MP, 40.5 Base Damage/Healing]      |
|         Bolt     [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Lightning,, 270 Base Damage]             |
|         Bolt2    [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=22MP, Lightning, 675 Base Damage]   |
|         Quake    [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=6MP, Earth, 371.25 Base Damage]     |
|         Quake2   [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=28MP, 810 Base Damage]              |
|         Bio      [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, 337.5 Base Damage, Can inflict Poison]   |
|         Bio2     [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, 708.75 Base Damage, Can inflict Poison]  |
|                                                                              |
|         Physical Form:                                                       |
|         Punch     [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 905 Base Damage]                       |
|         Lost Blow [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 2828.125 Base Damage]                  |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: This is by FAR the strongest boss you've encountered so far, so     |
|you're in for a challenge. The most important event of the battle is Lost     |
|Number's transformation, which occurs when the demonic creature loses half    |
|of its HP (3500 HP). It will either change into its red magical counterpart   |
|(if the last attack you hit it with was magical), or change into its purple   |
|physical half (when your last attack was physical).                           |
|                                                                              |
|Both forms are tough, but the physical form is considerably tougher and can   |
|easily deal 2500 damage with its blows. It is highly recommended that you use |
|magical attacks until the creature changes into its magical form, and then    |
|finish it off with physical attacks and Limit Breaks you'll have built up.    |
|                                                                              |
|Immediately cast Big Guard and try to keep this up during the battle. It helps|
|to inflict several status effects on Lost Number, with which Cross-slash,     |
|Seal Evil and Choco-Mog can help you. While the creature is frozen it can     |
|not transform, so you might find that beneficial. As usual, Beta and Aqualung |
|inflict solid amounts of damage, and White Wind allows you to heal your entire|
|party quickly.                                                                |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

Lost Number drops Cosmo Memory, Red XIII's ultimate Level 4 Limit Break. This
can most likely not be learnt yet as all his other six Limit Breaks need to be
learned first. The Odin Materia also pops out of the safe, together with the Key
to the Basement.

Head down the basement and unlock the previously locked door. Open the coffin
and have a chat with former Turk Vincent, who appears to have been slumbering
inside this chamber for decades. Make sure you ask him who is he is and you'll
get to name him. He will join you when you finally depart.

Tip: Like Barret and Yuffie, Vincent is a long range character. To benefit from
     this ability, place Vincent in the back row.

                 Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                 ||             {19} Mount Nibel             ||        CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:| Rune Blade, Plus Barrette, Powersoul, All Materia, Elixir,      ||
||          | Elemental Materia, Sniper CR, Counter Attack Materia,           ||
||          | Jem Ring(Boss Reward).                                          ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

Mount Nibel is a large complex of dangerous passageways through high, eerie
mountains. The first path is rather straightforward and only the Rune Blade can
be picked up from the first small mountain at the intersection. When you've
nearly reached the bridge, climb the mountain on your right and collect the Plus
Barrette. These weapons both grant Double Materia Growth.

Continue over the bridge until you get to a new area with five pipes. They are
all numbered, the rightmost pipe is #1 and the leftmost pipe is #5. Before
sliding down any of the pipes, walk down regularly first and have Cloud lower
one of the ladders. This is crucial if you're planning to backtrack later.

In either case, sliding down pipe #2 allows you to collect the Powersoul, and
sliding down #4 leads to an 'All' Materia. Ignore the big blue scorpion for now
and exit the screen south. Jump off the ledge and enter the cave down below.

If you encounter a Dragon in this area, take your time to steal a Gold Armlet
from it. With 46 Defense and 4 slots (2x2 linked) it is the best armor at this
point in the game. Dragons also use the Flame Thrower Enemy Skill, in case you
hadn't learnt it yet on all of your Enemy Skill Materia.

Make your way to the end of the cave and grab the Elixir from the chest, which
can be reached by backtracking through a cave on the left side of the area. In
the next screen, simply collect the Elemental Materia and continue to the next
cave. Grab the Sniper CR from a chest here; This is an excellent weapon to pair
with the Deathblow Materia as it has a 255% accuracy by default. Continue to
the reactor and walk past it until you reach the boss area once again.

Save your game and prepare for the upcoming boss battle. Equip one of your
characters with the Bolt Ring and protect the other two characters by equipping
the Lightning-Elemental and Ramuh-Elemental Materia combos in their armors
respectively (you should have access to two Elemental Materia at this point).

If you use Vincent, never use his Limit Break as it'll heal the Materia Keeper.
Lastly, and this is fairly important, give your characters your two Enemy Skill
Materia in order to learn the skill Trine.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Materia Keeper (Level: 38)          |Absorb: Fire                       |
|HP: 8400                                  |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|MP: 300                                   |-----------------------------------|
|Exp: 3000                                 |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|AP: 200                                   |Poison, Stop, Slow, Paralysed,     |
|Gil: 2400                                 |Darkness                           |
|Drops: Jem Ring(100%)                     |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Keyclaw    [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 514 Base Damage]                      |
|         Big Horn   [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 514 Base Damage]                      |
|         Hell Combo [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 889.5 Base Damage]                    |
|         Trine      [All Enemies, Mag Atk, Cost=20MP, Lightning Element,      |
|                     637.5 Base Damage];                                      |
|         Cure2      [1 Ally, Mag Atk, 1070 Base Healing]                      |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: The Materia Keeper has a solid amount of HP and its Trine attack    |
|deals around 600 damage to unprotected members. Its other attacks generally   |
|inflict between 500 and 900 damage, so all the more reason to keep Big Guard  |
|up during the fight.                                                          |
|                                                                              |
|Poison the Materia Keeper at the start of the fight and attempt to Stop it    |
|temporarily with the Choco-Mog Summon. Use any paralyzing Limit Breaks if you |
|have access to them and resort to hard hitting spells and attacks afterwards. |
|                                                                              |
|Aqualung always deals a decent amount of damage, but stay away from Fire-based|
|attacks, including Beta. The boss absorbs Fire, so those won't do you any     |
|good. Once you've learned Trine, using it against the boss isn't a bad idea.  |
|                                                                              |
|When the Materia Keeper gets low on HP it will attempt to postpone its        |
|inevitable death by casting Cure 2 on itself. This is a sign that the boss    |
|will fall after a few more blows. If you ever get low on HP yourself, resort  |
|to either White Wind or Cure.                                                 |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

Grab the Counter Materia it was keeping and exit Mount Nibel.

                 Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                 ||             {20} Rocket Town             ||        CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:  | Power Source, Yoshiyuki, Drill Arm, Edincoat (Boss Reward).   ||
||------------|                                                               ||
|| Fort Condor|                                                               ||
|| Treasure:  | Superball.                                                    ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

Back on the World Map, head west around the mountains and continue north until
you reach Rocket Town.

The first two houses are the weapon shop (left) and the inn (right). The Weapon
store also sells accessories and Gold Armlets. The house on the very left of the
town contains nothing in particular, and the house with the old man standing in
front of it is the Item shop. Talk to the old man several times and look at the
rocket together to receive the Yoshiyuki, a sword for Cloud with only 2 slots.
This powers up when party members are KO'd. If one character is KO'd it deals 2x
damage and if two characters are KO'd it deals 3x damage. You'll soon be able to
make good use out of this sword.

The Item shop also sells the Barrier, Exit and Time Materia. We don't recommend
buying the Barrier Materia as you already have the Big Guard Enemy Skill. The
Exit Materia can be useful as it allows you to escape battles more easily.

Go back outside and enter the house to the far right. Check the back to find a
Power Source inside a chest. Explore the remaining house on the upper right of
town and collect the Drill Arm from the chest. Enter the backyard and the team
finds a perfectly working plane there. A woman named Shera spoils the fun and
tells the team to speak with the captain if they intend to borrow it.

<Fort Condor Note 8:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Before doing anything else, exit Rocket Town once you've checked out the Tiny
Bronco in the backyard. It's a *long* trip back, but the reward is decent.
You'll receive the 'Super Ball', which is actually the Superball, a weapon with
high attack power and no slots for Yuffie.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The captain (Cid) is busy in his rocket. After speaking with Cid, head back to
his house and you'll find that Shinra has arrived as well! Shera will call Cloud
back inside as this might be the only chance to steal the Tiny Bronco. Palmer
already got his eyes on the Tiny Bronco, so you're in for a little fight.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Palmer (Level: 38)                  |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|HP: 6000                                  |-----------------------------------|
|MP: 240                                   |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Exp: 1800                                 |Poison, Stop, Slow, Paralysed,     |
|AP: 98                                    |Darkness                           |
|Gil: 5000                                 |                                   |
|Drops: Edincoat(100%)                     |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Mako Gun [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=22MP,                               |
|                   either Ice, Lightning, Fire Element, 472.5 Base Damage]    |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: Palmer's a breeze compared to the last few bosses you've fought.    |
|He only attacks with his Mako Gun, which inflicts around 450 damage. Start off|
|with Big Guard and summon Choco-Mog to Stop Palmer. Paralyzing or poisoning   |
|him works equally well, but in the end it's just a matter of spanking Palmer  |
|with powerful attacks until he makes his unfortunate, unsuccessful escape.    |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

The Tiny Bronco suddenly takes off! After a very short flight it appears the
plane can only be used as a boat in shallow water. Cid joins the party, which
completes your party (that is, if you've gotten Vincent and Yuffie).

With the Tiny Bronco you can reach a lot more places on the World Map than you
could before. The next section goes over the possibilities.

And as the saying goes: "Cid has a TINY Bronco, if you know what I mean..."

                 Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
                 || {21} Optional things with the Tiny Bronco ||       CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=*oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
|| Treasure:  | Kjata Materia, Mythril, Great Gospel.                         ||
||------------|                                                               ||
|| Fort Condor|                                                               ||
|| Treasure:  | 3x Turbo Ethers.                                              ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

Wutai:
------
You'll initially be very close to the Wutai continent. If you want to do this
sidequest right away, skip ahead to the Wutai section.  The game prefers that
you do some other things first, though.

Bone Village & Kjata Materia:
-----------------------------
It's possible for you to go to Bone Village with the Tiny Bronco. You'll get
here quite soon actually, but you can get some useful items that you might want
sooner. Bone Village is located on the north continent. If you bring up the
large map you shouldn't have a problem finding it. Sail all the way around
either the western or eastern continent to reach the beach where you can debark.

In Bone Village, talk to the digging man near the entrance. He has some useful
information regarding where you'll want to go. The foreman sitting near the
small building sells things. His best piece of equipment is arguably the Rune
Bangle, which is the best Double Growth armor in the game. While the Diamond
Bangles he sells are better in terms of defense, the choice is up to you.

You can actually enter the sleeping forest already, even though you can't
actually cross it completely. In the screen with the top view, carefully look
for a red orb appearing and vanishing along the sides of the forest. You'll have
to be quick and lucky to grab it: It's the Kjata Summon Materia.

Note: The Kjata Summon is powerful, but it has a big disadvantage from its multi
-elemental properties. It deals Fire, Ice and Lightning damage, so if an enemy
absorbs, nullifies or halves any of these, the spell will inflict much less
damage than it should. Unfortunately the Materia doesn't grant any elements
when paired with the Elemental Materia either, so you can't take early advantage
from any Elemental protection either.

The Weapon Dealer & Great Gospel:
---------------------------------
Back on the World Map, return to the Gold Saucer area and enter the single house
nearby Gongaga. Travel by the river running through the western continent to
reach it faster. The weapon dealer living here knows a great deal about the
Keystone you're looking for, but he sold it to Dio, the owner of the Gold
Saucer. The weapon dealer is also looking for a material called Mythril. If you
already have this in your possession you can skip the following paragraphs.

Remember the sleeping man in the cave on the eastern continent? If not, we'll
refresh your memory: There is a cave beyond a river near the Mythril Mines on
the eastern continent that can currently only be reached by using the buggy to
cross it. You can't access it with the Tiny Bronco. In this cave a sleeping man
can tell you either how many times you've fought battles, how many times you
have escaped, or that large Materia needs high level Materia..

What use is this to us? If the last two digits of the number you have fought are
the same, the man will wake up and give you an item. If the numbers are odd
(11,33,55,etc) you will get the Key Item 'Mythril', which the weapon dealer
requires. If the last two numbers are even (00,22,44,etc) you'll get a Bolt
Ring, an accessory that nullifies all Lightning attacks.

Get the Mythril and go back to the weapon seller's house. Give it to him and
he'll let you open up either the small box upstairs, or the large box
downstairs. The large box holds a Gold Armlet, the small one contains Great
Gospel, Aeris' final Limit Break. Needless to say you should go for the small
box. Furthermore, now is the very best time to teach Aeris this Limit Break,
which requires here to learn all other Limit Breaks as well. It grants the
peerless status to all party members for a short period of time, and Aeris is
the only character that can ever cast this status.

Note that it is possible to infinitely reclaim a piece of Mythril from the
Sleeping Man, as long as you choose the small box containing Great Gospel. 

Southeastern Isles:
-------------------
You can also explore a new continent on the south east. It's an excellent
training area, especially the beaches with Sea Worms from which you can steal
Dragon Scales, a powerful battle item. Speaking of which, it is an excellent
idea to backtrack to the long bridge on Mount Corel and steal several Right Arms
from Bombs here. This will come in handy soon.

Omnislash:
----------
Now is the first time you can purchase Omnislash, Cloud's final Limit Break,
from the Battle Square at the Gold Saucer. It costs a whopping of 51200 BP at
this time, so make sure you have plenty of GP before entering the arena. It is
important to note that checking the Keystone in Dio's showroom will advance the
story automatically.

<Fort Condor Note 9:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This Fort Condor battle is available as soon as you get the Tiny Bronco. The
reward is three Turbo Ethers.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

                 Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                 ||              {OPT-2} Wutai               ||        CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:| Magic Shuriken, Hairpin, MP Absorb Materia, Swift Bolt, Elixir, ||
||          | Dragoon Lance, Peace Ring(Boss Reward), HP Absorb Materia,      ||
||          | Power Source, Guard Source, Speed Source, Magic Source,         ||
||----------| Mind Source, Luck Source, Megalixir.                            ||
|| Other:   | Turtle's Paradise Flyer No. 6, Turtle's Paradise Contest Sign.  ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

Note: The Wutai Sidequest can be done on Disc 1 & 2. After you parachute into
----- Midgar on Disc 2, this quest becomes unavailable. The Wutai Pagoda quest
      can always be done, even on Disc 3.

Tip: Before you attempt this optional quest, which you are likely going to do
---- after you've just gotten the Tiny Bronco, make sure you got a decent supply
     of Hi-Potions, Ethers and Tents. You'll soon enough find out why.

Tip: The game prefers that you head to the Temple of the Ancients first.  We
---- can deduct this from the fact that many "slotless" weapons - that is
     weapons without slots that have a high attack rating, a higher hit %, and
     a critical hit bonus - can only be found there (or bought on disc 2 in
     Junon, but that is irrelevant in this context).  Furthermore, the Gigas
     Armlet you win from the final boss in the Temple of the Ancients also
     raises Strength with 30 points.

Head over to the large stretched continent to the west and debark the Tiny
Bronco at the southern part on the beach. Head for the large bridge and you'll
be interrupted by Yuffie.. After a short scene you'll be forced to fight an
Attack Squad. They're not as easy as they should be.. not in the least place
because.. your Materia is missing! Yuffie stole your materia and there's no
going back.

Note: Yuffie will not necessarily take all of your Materia as she can only hold
      so much herself - she'll take precious Materia over common ones in the
      following order (see table):

                 .----------------.--------------.----------.
                 |Master Summon   |HP<->MP       |Luck Plus |
                 |Knights of Round|Morph         |Magic Plus|
                 |Master Command  |Steal As Well |Speed Plus|
                 |Master Magic    |Added Cut     |Enemy Lure|
                 |Bahamut ZERO    |Final Attack  |All       |
                 |W-Summon        |Manipulate    |HP Plus   |
                 |W-Magic         |Sneak Attack  |MP Plus   |
                 |Mega-All        |Added Effect  |Cover     |
                 |Counter         |Comet         |Destruct  |
                 |Typhon          |Elemental     |Gravity   |
                 |Hades           |Throw         |Time      |
                 |Quadra Magic    |Leviathan     |Barrier   |
                 |Mime            |HP Absorb     |Exit      |
                 |Magic Counter   |MP Absorb     |Transform |
                 |Ultima          |Odin          |Mystify   |
                 |Shield          |MP Turbo      |Seal      |
                 |Full Cure       |Titan         |Revive    |
                 |Neo Bahamut     |Ramuh         |Earth     |
                 |Phoenix         |Deathblow     |Poison    |
                 |Enemy Skill     |Ifrit         |Sense     |
                 |Double Cut      |Gil Plus      |Steal     |
                 |Slash-All       |Counter Attack|Heal      |
                 |Exp Plus        |Shiva         |Restore   |
                 |Alexander       |Long Range    |Lightning |
                 |Kjata           |Pre-emptive   |Ice       |
                 |Bahamut         |Chocobo Lure  |Fire      |
                 |W-Item          |Choco/Mog     |Underwater|
                 |Contain         |Enemy Away    |          |
                 '----------------'--------------'----------'
Note: Read the table from top to bottom, left to right. Start at Master Summon,
      followed by Knights of Round. The Contain Materia is followed by HP<->MP,
      and the Enemy Away Materia is followed by Luck Plus.

Tip: Now that your Materia is gone you can change your equipment to balance
---- things somewhat. Give Cloud the Yoshiyuki, which is very powerful when
     allies get KO'd (2x power for one KO, 3x power for two KO). Give Red XIII
     the Seraph Comb. For all other characters, give them the weapon with the
     highest attack rating. If you completed the Temple of the Ancients then
     give them the non-slots weapon, which are ideal for this part.  These
     weapons not only have a high attack ranking, they also have a higher hit %
     and a critical hit bonus.
     
     The Gigas Armlet boosts Strength +30. If you have any Champion Belts, those
     also raise Strength (and Vitality) +30. Lastly, Power Wrists raise Strength
     +10.

Cross the two bridges and enter the valley. You'll have to cross one last
bridge after which you can continue straight north until you reach Wutai.

Wutai:
------
You'll spot Yuffie right away. Chase her over the two small bridges and read the
sign on the building with the large pot next to it. This is the Turtle Paradise
flyer contest, and you should probably have read most of the flyers by now.
Enter the pub and you'll run into the Turks.. who are on vacation and rather not
spoil their holiday.

Head northwest to enter a different part of town. The house on the right has a
bedroom in which you can sleep for free, and you can spot a secret entrance
on the left of this room which leads to a chest with a Magic Shuriken. The area
on the right side of the house contains another secret entrance that leads to
a chest with a Hairpin.

Talk to the man in the nearby room several times, and it turns out to be
Yuffie's father! Don't bother chasing Yuffie - it's a dead end. Head back to the
first part of town and enter the house next to the Save Point. Here, grab the MP
Absorb Materia from the chest, which is immediately stolen from you by Yuffie!

Where could she be this time? Explore the house near the town entrance and talk
to the people inside. Hmm, something's fishy here. Check the screen on the left
and chase Yuffie outside. Next, inspect the suspiciously wiggly pot at the pub.
Looks like you've finally nailed her!

Follow Yuffie back to her house and check the 6th flyer for the Turtle Paradise
contest. Flip either lever and you'll discover that Yuffie cannot be trusted
under any circumstances. Free your members and head for the area with the pagoda
once more.

Here, check the large bell on the left and ring it to reveal a secret door.
What's going on? As you exit the place, collect the Swift Bolt and Elixir from
the chests. The Don is quick to escape, leaving the team behind to battle an
Attack Squad. Back outside, inquire with Reno to get a clue where to go next.

Travel to the Save Point and put Barret in your party. Go north to explore the
Da-Chao statues. Follow Reno and Rude, head up at the intersection and walk
around the head of the statue to the next screen. Here, talk to Rude and enter
the cave to find the Dragoon Lance, a great weapon for Cid. Remember this cave
for later, and go back outside.

You may want to build up your Limit Breaks, and it is highly recommended to set
Barret's Limit Break at Level 1 and fill it up. Alternatively, if you already
have Aeris' her 3-1 Limit Break Planet Protector, be sure to put her in your
party to make good use of this Limit Break (which inflicts Peerless on all
party members, rendering them invulnerable for a short while).

Tip: If you have Red XIII in your party, consider equipping him with the Hairpin
     and putting him in the back row (Hairpin is a long range weapon).

When you're all ready, head south to find Corneo. He's not about to give up 
without a fight and summons his beloved pet Rapps.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Rapps (Level: 39)                   |                                   |
|HP: 6000                                  |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|MP: 300                                   |Stop, Slow, Darkness               |
|Exp: 3200                                 |                                   |
|AP: 33                                    |                                   |
|Gil: 20000                                |                                   |
|Drops: Peace Ring(100%)                   |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Aero3           [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=50MP, 1762.5 Base Damage]    |
|         Wing Cut        [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 526 Base Damage]                 |
|         Scorpion's Tail [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, Can inflict Poison,              |
|                          526 Base Damage]                                    |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: Rapps is a tough boss with no real weakness. The main difficulty of |
|this fight lies in the fact that you have no Materia. If you filled up        |
|Barret's Limit Break beforehand, immediately select Mindblow to deplete Rapps'|
|MP: This prevents it from casting its powerful Aero3 spell. That spell        |
|usually inflicts around 1700 points of damage, so it's important to move that |
|out of the way. Alternatively, have Aeris use her Planet Protector Limit Break|
|- that is, if you have it - to render your party peerless for a short, but    |
|potentially crucial amount of time.                                           |
|                                                                              |
|If Cloud has the Yoshiyuki equipped he'll deal solid damage, especially if any|
|other party members are KO'd. Right Arms or S-mines deal great damage, as do  |
|Dragon Scales or other battle items you might have in your inventory.         |
|                                                                              |
|Keep your party alive and well with Hi-Potions and X-Potions, and damage Rapps|
|with Limit Breaks. If you don't have Mindblow - which puts you in a rough     |
|scenario to say the least - play extremely defensively. Immediately revive any|
|fallen allies and heal everyone with Hi-Potions. Rapps can only use Aero3 up  |
|to six times, since this spell costs him 50 MP per casting, and he only has   |
|300 MP in total. With Aero3 out of the way the boss isn't entirely defenseless|
|but at least less dangerous.                                                  |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

Trivia: Rapps is the buddy of Aps, whom you defeated back in Midgar's sewers.
        Interestingly enough, Aps was named after Abzu, a primeval deity from
        Babylonian mythology, who was loved by an other deity called Tiamat.  In
	that fashion it certainly would not be out of place to name Rapps by its
	proper name, Tiamat.

After beating Rapps, the Turks are quick to save the day and deal with Corneo.
Since they agreed on a truce, the team is left alone for now.

Yuffie will finally give you all your Materia back, although your setup will be
completely messed up. She'll also give you the MP Absorb Materia back.

New Enemy Skills:
-----------------
Back on the World Map it's a good time to learn several useful Enemy Skills.
Magic Hammer can be learned from Razor Weed, found on the green plains, and you
can learn Death Force from Adamantaimai, the turtles on the beach.

Magic Hammer drains 100 MP from the target, giving it back to the caster at the
expense of only 3 MP, while Death Force grants immunity to sudden death spells
for the remainder of a battle or until the character is KO'd. You can also steal
Adaman Bangles from Adamantaimai, an armor with an extremely high defense rating
of 93, but with only two slots.

Loose ends in Wutai:
--------------------
Head back to Wutai and enter the cat house next to Yuffie's. You'll now find
that the stairs are no longer blocked by one of many kittens and that you can
grab the HP Absorb Materia from a chest.

Give the local weapon store a visit too. They're much more willing to sell
weapons now, which might be slightly better than what you're currently using.

Also stop by the Turtle Paradise Pub. If you've read all six Flyers throughout
the world, AND the contest sign outside the pub, talk to the owner behind the
counter and he'll give you your reward: a Power Source, Guard Source, Speed
Source, Magic Source, Mind Source, Luck Source, and a Megalixir. Not bad at all!


                 Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                 ||         {OPT-3} The Wutai Pagoda         ||        CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:| X-Potion(Boss Reward), Turbo Ether(Boss Reward),                ||
||          | Ice Ring(Boss Reward), Elixir(Boss Reward),                     ||
||          | All Creation(Boss Reward), Leviathan Materia.                   ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

Note: The Wutai Pagoda quest can always be done, even on Disc 3. You obviously
      must have recruited Yuffie, however.

Have Yuffie in your party and go to the Wutai Pagoda. Here she must face
several opponents in order to climb the Pagoda and attain the power of the Water
God. In other words, it's time for a series of boss fights. Equip the Choco/Mog-
Elemental Materia combo in Yuffie's weapon for the first fight.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Gorki (Level: 30)                   |Nullifies: Earth, Gravity          |
|HP: 3000                                  |Weakness: Wind                     |
|MP: 150                                   |-----------------------------------|
|Exp: 1500                                 |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|AP: 50                                    |Poison, Stop, Slow, Paralysed,     |
|Gil: 0                                    |Darkness                           |
|Drops: X-Potion(100%)                     |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Barrier   [1 Ally, Mag Atk, Cost=16MP, Inflicts 100% Barrier]        |
|         Regen     [1 Ally, Mag Atk, Cost=30MP, Inflicts 100% Regen]          |
|         Reflect   [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=30MP, Inflicts 100% Reflect]       |
|         Demi2     [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=33MP, Gravity Element,             |
|                    Damage=Target's HP/2]                                     |
|         Dive Kick [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Damage = MaxHP/4]                       |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: Being the first guardian of the pagoda, Gorki is a fairly tough     |
|opponent to start with. Immediately cast Haste or Big Guard and start to      |
|deplete his HP with Magic Hammer, preventing him from casting protective magic|
|on himself.                                                                   |
|                                                                              |
|His damaging attacks are fractions of your HP, and especially his Dive Kick is|
|an attack to watch out for. Quickly dispatch Gorki with physical attacks -    |
|especially if you placed the Choco-Mog-Elemental combination in your weapon as|
|the Wind element doubles your damage, or pummel him with Beta and Aqualung.   |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

And up to the second floor we go. Here you face Shake.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Shake (Level: 32)                   |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|HP: 4000                                  |-----------------------------------|
|MP: 180                                   |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Exp: 2200                                 |Poison, Stop, Slow, Paralysed,     |
|AP: 50                                    |Darkness                           |
|Gil: 0                                    |                                   |
|Drops: Turbo Ether(100%)                  |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Beak        [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 284 Base Damage]                     |
|         Rage Bomber [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 710 Base Damage, Can inflict Fury,   |
|                      Used as Counter Attack]                                 |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: This is an easy fight. Start with Big Guard as usual, then pummel   |
|Shake with powerful magic while keeping your HP up. Rage Bomber is an annoying|
|counter attack after which you'll want to heal.                               |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

You'll face Checkov on the third floor - don't forget to heal up and equip
Yuffie with the Jem Ring, which prevents Paralyse.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Checkov (Level: 34)                 |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|HP: 5000                                  |-----------------------------------|
|MP: 210                                   |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Exp: 1500                                 |Poison, Stop, Slow, Paralysed,     |
|AP: 50                                    |Darkness                           |
|Gil: 0                                    |                                   |
|Drops: Ice Ring(100%)                     |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Absorb     [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 296 Base Damage]                      |
|         Stare Down [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=5MP, Causes 100% Paralysed]       |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: The Jem Ring takes care of Stare Down, so all you need to do is     |
|deplete Checkov's HP. Big Guard allows you to finish this battle faster, and  |
|inflicting Poison on him speeds things up even more.                          |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

The fourth floor is home of Staniv, who is probably surprised to see someone
making it this far.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Staniv (Level: 36)                  |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|HP: 6000                                  |-----------------------------------|
|MP: 240                                   |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Exp: 3600                                 |Poison, Stop, Slow, Paralysed,     |
|AP: 50                                    |Darkness                           |
|Gil: 0                                    |                                   |
|Drops: Elixir(100%)                       |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Ironball    [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 385 Base Damage]                     |
|         Iron Attack [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 770 Base Damage,                     |
|                      Used as Counter Attack]                                 |
|         War Cry     [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=4MP, Causes 100% Sadness]        |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: Staniv is a weak boss to say the least. Open with Big Guard and     |
|finish him off while keeping an eye on your HP.                               |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

The last boss is Godo, Yuffie's father. He'll start the battle right away, so
read the note below first and come prepared.

<Perfect Game Note 16:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You might want to wait with beating Godo until you've got all 4 Enemy Skill
Materia. That way, you can learn the skill Trine on the remaining ones that
don't have it yet. Without Godo, the maximum amount of Enemy Skill Materia you
can complete is three, and the fourth can never obtain Trine from any other
enemy. The reason for this is because you can't learn Enemy Skills from enemies
in the Gold Saucer Battle Square.

There's another important point to take note of here.  Since Godo drops the
unique and (normally) non-duplicatable 'All Creation', you'll want to
duplicate it by means of a glitch that allows you to fight bosses twice.  In
order to do this you must skip a random battle by opening the menu the instant
the game wants to give you a random encounter on a field map.  More information
can be found in section {AP-4}, under the repeating boss glitch paragraph.

In fact, you'll have to get 99 All Creations this way by winning the first
battle and losing the second. Yuffie needs to learn the limit break while you're
collecting All Creations, otherwise you'll end up missing one copy (meaning
you will only have 98 instead of 99). Incidentally (and ironically), this also
means Yuffie can destroy Godo with her ultimate Limit Break that he himself
gives her!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Godo (Level: 41)                    |Normal: Gravity                    |
|HP: 10000                                 |-----------------------------------|
|MP: 1000                                  |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Exp: 5000                                 |Poison, Stop, Slow, Darkness       |
|AP: 60                                    |                                   |
|Gil: 40000                                |                                   |
|Drops: All Creation(100%)                 |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Beast Sword [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 337 Base Damage]                     |
|         Drain       [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, 193.5 Base Damage]                    |
|         Cure2       [1 Ally/Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=24MP, 1286 Base Healing,    |
|                      Used as Counter Attack when under 40% of Max HP,        |
|                      Used on Yuffie when she us under 20% of Max HP]         |
|         Trine       [All Enemies, Mag Atk, Cost=20MP, Lightning Element,     |
|                      1096.5 Base Damage]                                     |
|         Sleepel     [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=8MP, Can inflict Sleep]          |
|         Mini        [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=10MP, Can inflict Small]         |
|         Bio2        [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=36MP, Poison Element,            |
|                      Can inflict Poison];                                    |
|         Demi3;      [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=48MP, Gravity Element,           |
|                      Damage = HP * 3/4]                                      |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: Godo has *one* major weakness, which is Gravity. A few castings of  |
|the Enemy Skill Laser, or alternatively Demi/Demi2 will considerably hurt him.|
|A few powerful spells along with Poison make this a rather easy fight, as long|
|as you keep Big Guard and your HP up.                                         |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

For beating Godo you receive All Creation, Yuffie's final Limit Break, and the
Leviathan Materia. For now, that's all there is to do in Wutai.

                 Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                 ||      {22} The Keystone and the Date      ||        CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:  | Protect Vest, Choco Feather, Elixir.                          ||
||------------|                                                               ||
|| Fort Condor|                                                               ||
|| Treasure:  | 3x Turbo Ether.                                               ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

When you've done enough optional things for your liking, head for the Gold
Saucer. Remember how to enter the Gold Saucer? Its entrance is located at
North Corel's ropeway and there is no possible way to enter it by the desert.

Head to the Battle Square and go inside Dio's Showroom on the right. Looks like
you've found the Keystone. Just when Cloud is about the slip that little orb
into his pockets, Dio steps in the room and flexes his muscles. He'll let you
have the Keystone if you perform for him in the arena, leaving you with little
other options. It is possible to receive additional prizes for doing well,
however, so do your very best.

Tip: Your best bet for winning all 8 rounds is to place Cloud in the back row,
     give him a Counter Attack Materia, your best armor and weapon, his Limit
     Break filled up, an Enemy Skill Materia and a stock of healing items and
     powerful battle items such as Right Arm (steal from Bombs on the long
     bridge at North Corel), Dragon Scales (steal from Sea Worms on the south-
     western continent's beach), and Bird Wing (from Tonadu's on the beaches
     near Bone Village). Your best armor is likely an Adaman Bangle at this
     point in the game. With this setup it'll still be tricky, but you've at
     least maximized your chances.

No matter how abysmal your performance was, Dio gives Cloud the Keystone. If
you managed to win all eight battles, he'll throw in a Protect Vest and a Choco
Feather as added bonus.

With the Keystone in hand, attempt to exit the Gold Saucer. It looks like the
ropeway has a defect and the team has no choice but to stay the night.

During the night, Cloud is visited by either Aeris, Tifa, Yuffie or Barret.
You had the chance of affecting the outcome: The date mechanics have their own
section in case you're interested in them. [Check section {M1.6}]

Tip: The date consists out of a play at Event Square (unless you're with Barret,
     then this is skipped altogether) and a scene in the ropeway of the Round
     Square. It's extremely fun to mess up during the play, but we recommend
     saving beforehand and trying different outcomes.

After the date you'll spot a rather suspicious Cait Sith. Hey.. What's that he's
holding!? Quickly chase Cait through the Battle Square, Speed Square, Wonder
Square and lastly Chocobo Square. There's nothing to be done after this stab in
the back, but at least you now know who the spy was.. Make sure to check the
cabinet in Cloud's room to find an Elixir, then form a party with Cloud, Aeris
and someone else and set foot to the Temple of the Ancients.

<Fort Condor Note 10:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Now that you've gotten the Keystone, a new battle is unlocked at Fort Condor.
The prize is once again three Turbo Ethers.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

                 Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                 ||     {23} The Temple of the Ancients      ||        CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:  | Trident, Mind Source, Silver Rifle, Turbo Ether, Rocket Punch,||
||            | Luck Plus Materia, Morph Materia, Nail Bat, Princess Guard,   ||
||            | Ribbon, Trumpet Shell, Megalixir, Bahamut Materia, Work Glove,||
||            | Dragon Armlet(Boss Reward), Gigas Armlet(Boss Reward).        ||
|| Fort Condor|                                                               ||
|| Treasure:  | 5x X-Potion.                                                  ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

The Temple of the Ancients is located on the continent south of Junon, and
essentially looks like a pyramid surrounded by forest. The team finds an
injured but not deadly-wounded Tseng inside the temple, who hands Cloud the
Keystone. Take note that once you enter the temple there's no way out until the
story progresses.

You'll find yourself in a large labyrinth which looks like a hassle. Fortunately
it's much easier than it looks on first impression.

Walk past the first flight of stairs as they lead nowhere.  Continue and take
the stairs and vines down.  Proceed right, underneath the large stairs and
collect a Trident from the chest.  From here, ignore the stairs on the upper
part of the screen and travel right.

Climb the large vines and try entering the doorway; apparently it's sealed.
You'll want to follow the mysterious character, so walk the stairs and climb
more long vines while grabbing the Mind Source along the way. Enter the doorway
the character also went through. It appears that he's an ancient, has some items
for sale, can heal your injuries and even save the game for you. The chest on
the right contains a Silver Rifle.

Back outside, climb the vines back down and  underneath the doorway to grab a
Turbo Ether. Descend the large stairs and follow the path until you can climb
the small vines down. The chest there holds a Rocket Punch. Follow the path and
climb the vines up. From here, walk underneath the hallway in front of cloud,
continue right - down the stairs - and climb the large vines to reach the Luck
Plus Materia (given to you as 'Lucky Plus'). Head back and follow the path the
other ancient took.

You'll now be in a room with large, U-shaped boulders rolling down the walkway.
It requires precise timing in order to position Cloud in such a matter he can
crouch to safety under the hollow part of the boulders. When you reach the other
end of the walkway the endless wave of boulders will stop.  Backtrack to the
purple fluid and make sure you collect the Morph Materia - this is missable.

The Clock Room:
---------------
In the clock room up ahead, the way to maneuver over to the other chambers is
by moving the hands of the clock; do so manually. If the hand of the seconds
crosses your way you'll fall down, allowing you to collect the Nail Bat from a
chest. It also triggers an enemy encounter, however. When you exit that room
you'll find yourself at the previously sealed door, meaning you have to
backtrack to the clock room again.

There are many treasures scattered between the rooms. The following list sums up
what you can expect to find in each one of them:

I    = Enemy Encounter (Toxic Frog x2, Jemnezmy)
II   = Dead End
III  = Enemy Encounter (8 Eye x2)
IIII = Princess Guard
V    = Ribbon
VI   = Puzzle with doorways
VII  = Trumpet Shell
VIII = Megalixir
IX   = Dead End
X    = Rolling Boulder Room
XI   = Dead End
XII  = Temple Exit

To proceed with the game, enter room VI. Equip someone with the Ribbon accessory
(which grants immunity to nearly every status effect, with a notable exception
of sudden death). Here, a small puzzle awaits you.


(1)(4)
..--------------------------
(2)(7)|(3)(9)|(4)(2)|(5)(6)|
..--------------------------
(6)(3)|(7)(8)|(8)(5)|(9)(1)|
----------------------------


There are nine doorways in this screen and they've been numbered 1-9 on the map.
The left number of a door represents the door's number, while the other number
represents which doorway it leads to. For example, going through door five (the
upper right door) will lead you to door six. Furthermore, you can jump down a
level right below doors 1 and 2. Check which door the person took and take that
one to catch him. You can find a Work Glove in the chest on the lower left of
the screen.

After unlocking the door some scenes unfold and a boss fight commences.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Red Dragon (Level: 39)              |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|HP: 6800                                  |Absorb: Fire                       |
|MP: 300                                   |-----------------------------------|
|Exp: 3500                                 |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|AP: 200                                   |Poison, Slow, Paralysed,           |
|Gil: 1000                                 |Darkness                           |
|Drops: Dragon Armlet(100%)                |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                |                                   |
|Morph: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Dragon Fang       [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 1387.5 Base Damage]            |
|         Tail Attack       [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 693.75 Base Damage]            |
|         Red Dragon Breath [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, 930 Base Damage]                |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: The fight with Red Dragon isn't too tough. Start the fight by       |
|casting Big Guard on your team, while a decent second move would be to poison |
|or paralyse the dragon.  Unleash powerful attacks such as Aqualung, but stay  |
|away from fire-based spells such as Beta and Kjata.                           |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

Give Cloud the Dragon Armlet and pick up the Bahamut Materia that the Red
Dragon appears to have transformed into. Go to the right of the inner sanctum
and inspect the miniature temple. Some scenes unfold and the party must leave
the area. The ancient can heal any remaining wounds you incurred during the
battle with Red Dragon.

Before proceeding, take your time to equip your party appropriately. Give one of
your characters the Bahamut Materia, someone else the Throw Materia, and if you
aren't very high levelled it could be wise to build up Limit Breaks. Head back
to the clock room and head straight into room XII as it's the only accessible
room.

<Perfect Game Note 17:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Before you go into room XII, give Aeris an weapon and armor that are not unique.
That means no Princess Guard, Umbrella, etcetera. You can equip Materia and an
accessory on her just fine, however. You already know why this is needed.

Note: It is possible to unequip Aeris' weapon and armor after defeating the
      upcoming boss, but it's safer to do so now, since the time span for
      unequipping is very small - in fact, it's at some point during the scene
      when Cloud and Aeris are down in the hole. Some players may want to have
      Aeris' ultimate/best equipment on her when fighting Demon's Gate, which
      is reason enough to mention this is possible to combine with a Perfect
      Game.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

At the exit, Cloud and company find that the doors are being blocked by a mean
looking creature called Demons Gate.

Tip: It helps considerably to place your characters in the back row, which will
     halve the damage you take from Demons Gate.  Give the Long Range Materia
     to the character that you intend to use physical attacks with, and stick
     to magic spells, throw, or items with the others.  Alternatively, or
     perhaps additionally, you could also put your characters into the Sadness
     state by feeding them Tranquilizers.  This also greatly reduces the amount
     of damage incurred.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Demons Gate (Level: 45)             |Halves: Earth                      |
|HP: 10000                                 |Nullifies: Gravity, Poison         |
|MP: 240                                   |-----------------------------------|
|Exp: 3800                                 |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|AP: 400                                   |Slow, Darkness                     |
|Gil: 4000                                 |                                   |
|Drops: Gigas Armlet(100%)                 |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                |                                   |
|Morph: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Falling Rocks [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 1762.5 Base Damage                 |
|         Cave-in       [All Enemies, Phys Atk, 1410 Base Damage]              |
|         Petrif-Eye    [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=12MP, Causes 100% Slow-numb]   |
|         Demon Rush    [All Enemies, Phys Atk, 2215 Base Damage]              |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: Demons Gate is arguably the toughest boss you've fought thus far,   |
|and one of the toughest bosses of the game. The creature attacks quickly and  |
|its attacks cause a lot of damage. Therefore, counter this by casting Big     |
|Guard at the start of the battle to put everyone in haste and to build up your|
|defense. If your barriers run out, don't hesitate to perform another casting  |
|of Big Guard.                                                                 |
|                                                                              |
|Demons Gate has very high defenses, so most of your attacks do little damage. |
|Notable exceptions are the piercing Bahamut summon (which you can cast only   |
|once right now), battle items such as S-mine and Right Arm, or the Throw      |
|command. By throwing non-unique weapons at Demons Gate you can quickly inflict|
|thousands of points of damage. You'll probably want to safekeep your unique   |
|weapons, no matter how powerful.                                              |
|                                                                              |
|Stay healthy by occasionally casting the White Wind Enemy Skill. Besides      |
|being a great healing spell, it also cures any characters inflicted by the    |
|Petrif-Eye attack.                                                            |
|                                                                              |
|Should all else fail, Limit Breaks such as Meteorain really mop the floor with|
|Demons Gate. That is, if you already have access to such Limit Breaks..       |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

Note: During the scene when Cloud and Aeris are at the bottom of the pit, there
      is a very small time span during which you have one final chance to
      unequip Aeris' weapon and armor.

A series of scenes occur and you'll eventually wake up in Gongaga. Exit the town
and find the Tiny Bronco parked on the beach south of Gongaga.

<Fort Condor Note 11:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
After the Temple of the Ancients it's time to do yet another Fort Condor Battle.
While the game says you don't get anything (and shows a tiny blank text box),
you receive 5 X-Potions for winning this 10th battle.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

      Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO CHECK
      || {24} Bone Village, The Sleeping Forest & City of the Ancients ||  LIST
Oo*=-*Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:   | Kjata Materia (unless already acquired), Water Ring,         ||
||             | Magic Source, Aurora Armlet, Guard Source, Elixir,           ||
||-------------| Enemy Skill Materia, Comet Materia, Wizard Bracelet (Boss).  ||
|| Key Items:  | Lunar Harp.                                                  ||
|| ------------|                                                              ||
|| Bone Village| (At this time): Lunar Harp, Mop, Buntline, Megalixir,        ||
|| Treasure    | Elixir(infinite), Turbo Ether(infinite), Ether(infinite),    ||
||-------------| Potion(infinite).                                            ||
|| Fort Condor |                                                              ||
|| Treasure:   | 5x X-Potion, 5x X-Potion.                                    ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

Head to Bone Village, located on the northern continent. You may have been here
before, but now is the first time you can actually dig for items. This mini game
is covered more in-depth in the subsections of this guide and for now it
suffices to say that you're looking for the Lunar Harp to awaken the slumbering
Sleeping Forest.

Talk to the man sitting in the doorway, as he's the one in charge of the
diggers. The basic principles of digging are easy. Several fixed spots contain
treasure, but you don't know where those spots are located just yet. In order to
find out where those spots are you can place a maximum of 5 diggers by walking
around the area and pressing the square button to place a digger.

Ignite the bombs afterwards and the diggers will face the direction where one
of the treasure spots lies. The point where their line of view crosses is the
spot you'll want to dig at.

Since the Lunar Harp is located on the upper level, slightly right of the smoke
coming from the lower building, you can simply skip the entire process of
placing diggers around the area to find the spot. Dig at that spot and you'll
find the Lunar Harp in the chest near the entrance next morning.

Tip: You can get several other treasure from Bone Village including the Mop,
Buntline, Megalixir. You can also get infinite Elixirs, Turbo Ethers, Ethers
and Potions. On Disc 2, other unique items will become available as well.

Tip: To stock up on Elixirs, just talk to the foreman and skip placing diggers
and igniting bombs so you can mark the spot. Now, do you see the aircraft? Its
nose lies on the ground. Position Cloud so his head touches the top of the
aircraft's nose. This is the place to dig for Elixirs. Mark it and check the
chest afterwards. You have about a 1 out of 7 times chance to find an Elixir in
the chest, but you can repeat it as often as you'd like.

The Sleeping Forest:
--------------------
After collecting the Lunar Harp, enter the Sleeping Forest. The harp is
automatically used to awaken the forest and you can now travel further. If you
haven't gotten the red Kjata summon Materia yet, do so now. The red orb will
appear and disappear on the sides of the screen with the top view, so quickly
run over to catch it.

<Fort Condor Note 12:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Right after you awaken the Sleeping Forest with the Lunar Harp, this battle
becomes available. While the game tells misinforms you once more with a blank
text screen, you receive 5 X-Potions for winning this battle.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Continue north and head under the tree trunk to collect a Water Ring from the
chest. Proceed through the trunk to reach the other side and exit to the
world map.

Note: You can encounter Boundfats in the area with the tree trunk, creatures
from which you can win, steal, or morph into Dazers. This is an item that
inflicts the Paralyse status and it's one of a kind, so you might want to
collect some.

The Forgotten Capital:
----------------------
At the world map, enter the Forgotten Capital, also known as the City of the
Ancients. Take a left at the intersection and search the house for a chest with
a Magic Source and a Save Point. Explore the rest of the area until you reach
a large circular chamber.  Go downstairs to find a chest with an Aurora Armlet.
This is a particularly fine armor at this point of the game and absorbs Ice
Elemental attacks.

Go back to the entrance and explore the eastern sections of the city. The first
house contains a Guard Source, while the second holds an Elixir in a chest and
a well hidden Enemy Skill Materia behind the upper bed. Get some rest to proceed
with the story.

<Fort Condor Note 13:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This battle is available right after the nap. It's still possible to exit the
city, but it's a long way to backtrack. The game gives yet another blank screen,
but you receive 5 X-Potions once again for your victory.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

From the intersection, go north and enter the building. Collect the Comet
Materia at the very top, then head down the shiny blue stairs in the middle of
the room. Descend the large crystal stairs and use the opportunity to save your
game. It's recommended to equip someone with the Water Ring accessory for an
upcoming boss battle.

Proceed over the stone steps, walk to Aeris and witness a historical scene of
gaming history. A boss battle immediately initiates after the scenes.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Jenova*LIFE (Level: 50)             |Weakness: Earth                    |
|HP: 10000                                 |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|MP: 300                                   |Absorb: Water                      |
|Exp: 4000                                 |-----------------------------------|
|AP: 350                                   |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Gil: 1500                                 |Slow, Paralysed, Darkness          |
|Drops: Wizard Bracelet(100%)              |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                |                                   |
|Morph: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Blue Light [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=8MP, Water Element, 472.5 Base    |
|Damage]; Blue Flame [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=12MP, Water Element, 540 Base     |
|Damage]; Aqualung   [All Enemies, Mag Atk, Cost=34MP, Water Element, 1755 Base|
|Damage]; Reflect    [1 Ally, Mag Atk, Cost=30MP, Causes 100% Reflect];        |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: If you took our advise earlier and equipped someone with the Water  |
|Ring then this battle has essentially been won already as Jenova*LIFE only    |
|attacks with Water Elemental attacks.                                         |
|                                                                              |
|You can learn Aqualung on your new Enemy Skill if someone has it equipped.    |
|Other than this you have no reason to stretch this battle, so pummel Jenova   |
|with Bahamut, Odin, Kjata and Beta. Stay away from Aqualung as it'll only     |
|heal her.                                                                     |
|                                                                              |
|In case you hadn't equipped the Water Ring, an alternative strategy would be  |
|to cast Magic Hammer on Jenova*LIFE three times to fully deplete her MP,      |
|rendering her completely vulnerable. Just make sure you don't cast Magic      |
|Hammer if she's under the protection of the Reflect spell. If that's the case,|
|DeSpell this first.                                                           |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

Several scenes take place and the team sets out to follow Sephiroth to the
Northern Crater. This is also the end of Disc 1.

                 Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                 ||   {25} Coral Valley Cave & Icicle Inn    ||       CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:  | Viper Halberd, Bolt Armlet, HypnoCrown, Megalixir, Magic Plus ||
||            | Materia, Power Source, Hero Drink, Vaccine, X-Potion,         ||
||------------| Turbo Ether.                                                  ||
|| Key Items: | Glacier Map, Snowboard.                                       ||
||------------|                                                               ||
|| Fort Condor|                                                               ||
|| Treasure:  | 3x Elixir.                                                    ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

<Fort Condor Note 14:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This battle is best done right now, since the further you travel and continue
with the story, the harder it gets to return to Fort Condor. The reward for this
battle are three Elixirs.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

<Perfect Game Note 18:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Before you continue it is important to collect the following items, which will
all be gone once you proceed with the story up to where you get the airship:

o Umbrella (Speed Square Gold Saucer): You can only can get one of these, which
  is won when you score 5000+ points.  See the Speed Square section for tips.
o 99 Mythril Clips (bought in Junon)
o 99 Four Slots (bought in Costa Del Sol-bar)
o 99 Shotguns (bought in Rocket Town)

This'll cost you 514800 Gil in total, quite a hefty sum of money. Travel to the
beaches of Mideel, the southeast continent and start mastering your 'All'
Materia's - place them in double growth equipment. One 'All' Materia sells for
1.4 million Gil, leaving you with plenty enough money to live a financially
healthy life.

Another noteworthy mention is that the Buggy and Tiny Bronco will vanish from
the map after you get the Airship. The reason for this is that the game can only
store two vehicles on the world map, and the Buggy and Tiny Bronco become nearly
obsolete after acquiring the Airship (and still later on, the Submarine).

There is, however, one area that only the Buggy can travel to: The Corel Prison
(Desert Area). There are two unique enemies here, the Land Worm and the Cactuar.
While neither creature is particularly thrilling, this is your last chance to
fight either of them.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Coral Valley:
-------------
In the Coral Valley, walk around the shell by going left, around it and collect
the Viper Halberd from a chest. Continue up the steps and Cloud automatically
hops from one to another. Make your way to the top of the shell and enter the
cave on the left.

There are a few more treasures in this area. First of all, climb up the second
crack. Climb up further to collect the Bolt Armlet from a chest. Head down, go
right, climb down the other crack and grab the HypnoCrown from another chest.
This unique accessory increases your chances of manipulating an enemy given it's
possible to manipulate the enemy in the first place.

Climb up to grab the Megalixir in the chest on the upper right. Head left from
here to ascend yet another crack. Climb down the ladder on the left to reach the
Magic Plus Materia. Climb the ladder and exit the screen on the right to reach
the end of the caves. Collect the Power Source from the last chest and exit to
the world map.

On the snowy world map, travel west and curve north around the mountains to 
reach the isolated Icicle Inn.

Icicle Inn:
-----------
The house on the nearby left is the local weapon shop and sells very decent
weapons. The house on the very right with the snowman contains the Key Item
'Glacier Map', a Hero Drink and a Vaccine.

Head for the Inn - also located on the right side of town - and go upstairs.
An X-Potion is lying in the left corner, barely visible through the window-pane.
The house on the upper left of town holds some interesting background story on
Professor Gast and Ifalna, Aeris' mother. Check the apparatus to watch the
videos, co-starring Hojo. Look for a Turbo Ether downstairs.

Back outside, talk to the man on the north side of town and Elena of the Turks
shows up. Dodge her GRAND PUNCH and head to the house in the middle of town.
Have a word with the kid and he'll lend you his Snowboard. The fact you'll never
bring it back to him doesn't matter.

Now that you're all set, head north and talk to the man again. He's got the
know-how of snowboarding, so have a listen if you're a first timer. During the
snowboarding course you'll come across two intersections. Depending on which
ones you take you'll end up at a specific area in the Great Glacier. See below
for the exact locations.

                 Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                 ||          {26} The Great Glacier          ||        CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:| Mind Source, Potion, Safety Bit, Elixir, Added Cut Materia,     ||
||          | All Materia, Alexander Materia.                                 ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Picture Map: http://www.shillatime.org/finalfantasy7/greatglacier.html     ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
ASCII-MAP:
                                              .-------------------------------.
        (Cabin) & (Gaea's Cliff)              |Legend:                        |
          (when you pass out)                 |-------------------------------|
                  _||__                       |v means you can only go that   |
                 |Snow-|                      |direction, and if you go the   |
         (11)----|(12) |----------            |other direction from (10)      |
        /  |     |Field|          \           |you'll end up on the path      |
       /   |     '-----'          (13)-(13a)  |with the Added Cut Materia,    |
      /    `.       |________      |          |this is in the second screen   |
     /       \               \     v          |going upper-right from (10).   |
   (6+6a)----(7)--------\    (8)^  v          |-------------------------------|
     |                   (9)  | .  v          |6a is the cave holding an      |
     |              (4+) / \  | ^ /           |Elixir which you can get       |
     |                | /   --(10)            |infinite of by walking away    |
    (2)------(3)-----(4)       /              |when it says 'found Elixir'.   |
     |        |        \     /                |-------------------------------|
     |        |         |  /                  |4a is an ice-jumping puzzle.   |
     '-------(1)--------(5)--(5+)--(5++)      |4b is a cave with Safety Bit.  |
              |                     |         |-------------------------------|
           world map              world map   |5+/5++ lead to the world map.  |
                                              |-------------------------------|
Snowboarding intersections lead here:         |13a is where the Alexander     |
Left+Right  = Area (1)                        |Materia can be found, BUT you  |
Left+Left   = Area (3)                        |must go to area 8 first to     |
Right+Right = Area (5)                        |touch the hot spring.          |
Right+Left  = Area (9)                        '-------------------------------'

The Great Glacier isn't too hard to navigate with a map in your hands. First
there are a few things you need to know about the Great Glacier.

Passing Out:
------------
- You can't run around the Great Glacier forever. The cold temperature only
allows the team to run for a certain period of time, and after '544 steps',
Cloud will pass out and wake up at Mr. Holzoff's Cabin at the base of Gaea's
Cliff. The counter is incremented by 1 unit every time you take a step, although
a step is hard to measure.

- 544 steps equals approximately 145 seconds of movement in the NTSC American
version of the game. For the PAL version it equals approximately 174 seconds.

- When you enter the Great Glacier from the world map or from the snowboarding
minigame it is reset to 0. The counter is also reset if you enter any field in
the Great Glacier with a value higher than 544 (and thus allowing you to pass
out again after being rescued by Mr. Holzoff).

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- Glitch: You cannot pass out in the 'Base of Gaea's Cliff' field just outside
Mr. Holzoff's house. This allows you to increase the counter past 32767, causing
it to overflow. When this happens, the counter goes into a negative figure and
the game no longer recognizes the counter as being higher than 544. This results
in an immunity to passing out in the Great Glacier.

- It takes very long to make the counter overflow and there's no real way to
tell whether you've overflowed it already other than by extensive field testing.
However, if you're set on completing this tedious task, remember you can always
save your game at Mr. Holzoff's house. You can't set foot in the Great Glacier
until you think you've reached overflow.

- For the NTSC version of the game you'll have to run around for approximately
145.5 minutes (not seconds!), while you'll need to run around for about 174.6
minutes in the PAL version. It doesn't hurt to add 10 minutes to these amounts
so that you know for certain you've overflowed the timer.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<Perfect Game Note 19:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
If you're attempting a perfect game you'll need to take note of the following.

2 copies of Un-mastered Alexander Materia (keep the 'source' available):
------------------------------------------------------------------------
It's possible to duplicate the unique Alexander Materia by performing a very
specific series of steps, causing Cloud to collapse the very moment you pick
up the materia. This allows you to keep the Alexander Materia in the field so
you can pick it up again. It works because the game first hands you an item, but
only removes it from the field after you confirm the text box telling you that
youve received it. Collapsing at the same time never closes that text box, thus
never removing the item/materia from the field, allowing the duplication trick.

  The trick to duplicating this materia goes as follows (it is vital you do
  exactly what the instructions tell you to - the path Cloud walks is of
  importance indeed. You must only input the directional buttons mentioned;
  if the instructions tell you to run right, you must only hold X and the right
  directional button, for example. The same applies to all instructions. And
  yes, it matters whether or not Cloud runs or walks):

  Preliminaries: 1. Find Snow's Cave and defeat her, but do NOT pick up the 
                    Alexander Materia she drops.
                 2. It helps to equip several (mastered) Enemy Away Materia to
                    reduce/prevent enemies from attacking you while performing
                    the below trick.

     Field Instructions:
     -------------------
  1. Walk around in the Great Glacier long enough to make Cloud pass out.
  2. Directly exit the cabin via the shortest route and immediately go back
     inside (all by running).
  3. Run RIGHT (indeed only the *right* directional button) and save at the Save
     Point. Reset the game afterward and load up your savegame.
  4. Back in the cabin after loading, run LEFT. (Yes, Cloud will in fact run up
     on the screen until he stops; this is normal.) When Cloud stops, run DOWN.
     Cloud will exit the cabin.
  5. Outside, run while holding both R1 + DOWN.
  6. In the large snowfield (where the wind changes the direction of the screen)
     it doesn't matter how you run exactly, as long as you exit via the far
     (initial) right side of the screen so you end up at the right side of the
     Great Glacier for our purpose.
  7. When you reach the first snowy path, *WALK* (not run) RIGHT. On the second
     icy path, again *WALK* RIGHT. Again, on the third rocky path, *WALK* RIGHT.
  8. In the next field, *WALK* RIGHT (yes, just the directional right button) 
     until Cloud stops. At this point, *WALK* by using L1 + RIGHT simultaneously
     to enter the cave.
  9. Inside, *WALK* DOWN until Cloud stops. At this point, *WALK* by pressing
     L1 + DOWN until Cloud stops again (indeed, at the cave's right corner.)
     From here, simply *WALK* UP all the way until Cloud stops again.
 10. At this point you'll have to *WALK* DOWN until Cloud stops, then *WALK* UP
     until Cloud stops, and repeat this for a total of ten times. Cloud should
     now be standing against the wall, not facing the screen.
 11. Now for the final step: *WALK* DOWN and when Cloud stops, keep holding the
     DOWN button pressed. Then, while holding that down, add at the exact same
     time L1 + CIRCLE. This simultaneously moves Cloud AND picks up the
     Alexander Materia. You now have a copy of it while the source remains
     intact. (Do NOT press circle a second time; you MUST keep the text box
     available that says you've received the Materia.)

 [Why do I have to keep the 'source' available - that is, keep the Alexander 
  Materia in the field? The answer is fairly simple. You'll want to collect at
  least two copies of un-mastered Alexander materia to show that you have the
  knowledge (and skill) to pull this trick off, and to show that in theory you
  could repeat it to fill your inventory with as many copies as you'd like.
  Since there are multiple uniquely duplicatable materia, there is no fixed
  amount of materia you should dupe. However, someone could always argue that
  you do indeed need to have a certain specific amount of unmastered copies.
  Because of this, it's wise to simply dupe the materia twice and leaving the
  source, that is the Alexander Materia in the field, right where it is. That
  way, you can always decide later to dupe more since the source is readily
  available to you.]

2 copies of Un-mastered Added Cut Materia (keep the 'source' available):
------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Preliminaries: 1. It helps to equip several (mastered) Enemy Away Materia to
                    reduce/prevent enemies from attacking you while performing
                    the below trick.

     Field Instructions:
     -------------------
  1. Walk around in the Great Glacier long enough to make Cloud pass out.
  2. Directly exit the cabin via the shortest route and immediately go back
     inside (all by running). 
  3. Run RIGHT (indeed only the *right* directional button) and save at the Save
     Point. Reset the game afterward and load up your savegame.
  4. Back in the cabin, run UP so Cloud enters the other room.
  5. In this room, run out by holding L1 + LEFT.
  6. In the cabin's first room, run outside by holding L1 + LEFT again.
  7. Outside the cabin, exit the screen by *WALKING*, by holding L1 + LEFT.
  8. In the large snowfield (where the wind changes the direction of the screen)
     it doesn't matter how you run exactly, as long as you exit via the far
     (initial) right side of the screen so you end up at the right side of the
     Great Glacier for our purpose.
  9. When you reach the first snowy path, *WALK* RIGHT. On the second icy path,
     again *WALK* RIGHT. Again, on the third rocky path, *WALK* RIGHT.
 10. In the next screen (which is outside Snow's Cave) *WALK* by holding R1 +
     RIGHT until Cloud exits the screen.
 11. At the next two southwest/northeast slopes, *WALK* by holding R1 + DOWN.
 12. At the four-way intersection, *WALK* UP.
 13. You're now at the southeast/northwest slope. *WALK* LEFT.
 14. You've now reached the slope with Added Cut. Run by holding L1 + UP. When
     Cloud stops, run by holding L1 + DOWN to exit the screen.
 15. At the previous slope, run by holding L1 + UP to enter the Added Cut slope
     again.
 16. At the Added Cut slope, run by holding L1 + UP.
 17. Now that you're near the Added Cut Materia, simultaneously press LEFT +
     CIRCLE to pick it up while keeping the source available. (Do NOT press 
     circle a second time; you MUST keep the text box available that says you've
     received the Materia.)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Great Glacier Points of Interest:
---------------------------------
The map has several areas of interested marked by a number. When you move
between areas of interest you'll find that you're walking up, down, right and
left, which doesn't always make sense. Just see these paths as connecting roads
between the areas of interest.

What follows next is a brief description of each area of interest.

(1) Entrance of the Great Glacier. There's a sign that reads 'Ice Gate' here.

(2) There's a single tree and a bridge here.

(3) There are many pine trees in this screen, and you can find a Mind Source
somewhere in the upper middle area.

(4) Part of a frozen lake on which you can find a single Potion. The bottom half
of the screen shows several pine trees and solid ground.

(4+) If you head northwest from screen (4) you'll get to a little puzzle. The
solution can be found below. In the cave on the other side you can find a
Safety Bit.

Note: The number 1 means you need to jump in that direction first, followed
later by number 2.

                       To the Cave:          Back out again:
                       ------------          ---------------
                           End                    Start
                      o--o  o  o  o          o  o--o  o  o
                      |  1  |                   |
                      o--o2-o  o  o          o  o--o--o  o
                         |                            |
                      o  o  o  o  o          o  o  o--o  o
                         2                         |
                      o--o--o  o  o          o  o  o--o  o
                      |  1  |                         |
                      o--o  o  o  o          o  o  o--o  o
                           Start                  End

(5) This icy canyon holds many exits to other areas, including a cave that
leads back to the world map. The cave areas are marked by (5+) and (5++).

(6) This icy area is viewed from an eagles-eye perspective and contains a cave
in the middle. Inside this cave you can find an Elixir.

Tip: You can get infinite Elixirs upon reaching this cave. When you press circle
ONCE to pick up the Elixir, the game says 'Received Elixir!'. Do NOT press
circle again and simply walk out of the cave - the game actually allows you to
do this. When you enter the cave again, the Elixir can be grabbed over and over
again, allowing for an early infinite stock of Elixirs!

(7) A tree trunk serves as a bridge here.

(8) This is where the hot springs are located. Move near the water and touch
the hot springs in order to do a side quest soon.

(9) This screen only contains a lone pine tree.

(10) This intersection leads to four different areas in total, but the upper
right path has a special property: It will take you back and forth to screen 8,
*but* if you go south from screen 13 you'll end up at this intersection as well.
It's not possible to travel to screen 13 from here, but we'll get to that soon.

Furthermore, the path on the upper left leads to area 8 as well, while the lower
left path leads to area 9. In order to find the Added Cut Materia, travel the
upper right path to area 8 and check the second pathway thoroughly. You'll find
the Materia in an alcove on your right-hand wall.

(11) This mountain trail contains a cleverly hidden Moai Face in the upper left
mountain. The left trail leads back to area 6, while northern trail leads to the
Snowfield (Area 12).

(12) This is the Snowfield. The wind changes direction occasionally, so you
have to place landmarks while walking to maintain a steady direction. In the
middle of the field is a cave which contains an 'All' Materia inside. If you
travel to the east of the Snowfield you'll reach the elusive area 13.

(13) This area can only be accessed from the Snowfield by heading east from
there. The cave here is inhabited by a witch named Snow. Initially not very
unfriendly, but talk to her after touching the hot springs and she'll get mad,
initiating a boss fight. She's just as weak as any other Snow enemy, but you
receive the Alexander Summon Materia for your victory.

Tip: It's not a bad idea to steal the Circlet accessory from Snow (or any other
Snow enemy for that matter). This accessory increases your Magic and Spirit by
+30 each!

After fully exploring the Great Glacier, make your way north of the Snowfield
to reach the base of Gaea's Cliff and Mr. Holzoff's house. You'll be brought to
Mr. Holzoff's house automatically whenever you pass out.

                 Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                 ||            {27} Gaea's Cliffs            ||        CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:| Ribbon, Javelin, Fire Armlet, 'Last Elixir'(= Megalixir),       ||
||          | Speed Source, Elixir, Enhance Sword, Dragon Fang(Boss Reward).  ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

After resting and saving at Mr. Holzoff's house, prepare yourself to ascend the
cliff. You'll need to keep Cloud's body temperature between 26 and 38 degrees.
If it falls below 26 degrees, Cloud will pass out and is brought back to Mr.
Holzoff's house again.

Climb the cliff and follow the linear path of cracks until you reach a large
cave.

Note: The Gaea's Cliff is a one-time-only area. You cannot return after certain
      events have taken place. It is wise to learn the Trine enemy skill from
      creatures called Stilva (which looks like a red, smaller version of the
      Materia Keeper). Also take your time to learn the Magic Breath Enemy Skill
      from Stilva. Protect yourself against this attack by equipping gear that
      keeps you safe from Fire, Ice or Lightning attacks.

<Perfect Game Note 20:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You need to morph Stilva or Evilhead into an Holy Torch. Depending on whether
you're planning to use the W-Item trick later on, you might need to get 99.
It is also possible to morph a Stilva in the Battle Square later on, but that
will require much more time in case you're planning to collect 99 legitimately.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the icy cave, head north to the next area. Go left here, then south to reach
the upper walkway of the previous area. Head over the ice bridge and keep
running to the right - you'll walk straight through a secret entrance in the
wall to your right. This leads to a very secretly placed chest with a second
Ribbon accessory.

Go north and grab the Javelin from the chest on the right, then proceed through
the doorway on the left. In the next screen, walk through the tunnel to reach a
boulder. Kick it and it'll remove an obstacle below. Backtrack to the unlocked
area and head through the previously blocked tunnel. Follow the linear path to
exit and climb another cliff.

This time there are several dead ends you'll want to avoid climbing. Go straight
up at the first intersection, the second time go right. The remainder of this
cliff is straightforward.

Tip: You can encounter Malboros at any outside are of Gaea's Cliff. These
creatures usually attack with their Frozen Beam, but they also sporadically use
their Bad Breath Enemy Skill, which casts several bad status effects on all
targets. It's a handy skill that you might want to pick up, but be sure to give
Ribbons to two of your members for protection against the bad statuses.

The next cave contains a save point. The doorway to the north can't be reached
yet, so take a right, follow the outside path and you'll reach a ledge with
several icicles hanging from the ceiling. Every time you pass one it'll initiate
a fight. Win it - a single casting of Beta does wonders - and the icicle drops
down. Grab the Fire Armlet from the chest on the right first and collect the
'Last Elixir' from the chest on the very left after defeating all icicles. Exit
and re-enter the screen to get the option for jumping down, which is a little
faster than backtracking.

Return to the large hall with the save point and you'll notice that the fallen
icicles have bridged the gap between the exit and the hall. Collect the Elixir
from a chest in the lower right corner of the room, and a Speed Source from the
now accessible chest in the upper left corner.

The mountain trail contains a chest with the Enhance Sword. At the end of the
path you've reached another climbable cliff. Whenever given the option at an
intersection, choose to climb up and you'll reach the next cave quickly enough.

This area contains a Save Point and a pool that heals the party upon touching
it, making this an excellent place to level up. A noteworthy encounter here are
Blue Dragons, fierce creatures which drop a Dragon Armlet. Before proceeding
down the next hall, equip one person with the Aurora Armlet and Fire Ring, an
other member with a Fire Armlet, and the remaining character with a Dragon
Armlet and either an Ice Ring or Fire Ring. Protection against Earth and
Lightning doesn't hurt either; an Elemental - Lightning/Earth combination in
someone's armor may be beneficial in the upcoming boss battle.

At the end of the next hall, the party encounters a two headed hydra-like,
dual-polar dragon called Schizo. Yipes!

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Schizo Left (Level: 43)             |Absorb: Ice                        |
|HP: 18000                                 |-----------------------------------|
|MP: 350                                   |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Exp: 2200                                 |Darkness                           |
|AP: 120                                   |                                   |
|Gil: 1500                                 |                                   |
|Drops: Dragon Fang(100%)                  |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                |                                   |
|Morph: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Left Breath   [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=10MP, Ice Element,             |
|                        1089.375 Base Damage]                                 |
|         Double Breath [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=10MP, Fire/Ice Element,        |
|                        1711.875 Base Damage]                                 |
|         Tremor        [All Enemies, Mag Atk, Cost=8MP, Earth Element,        |
|                        778.125 Base Damage, Counter Attack every 6th hit]    |
|         Final Attack Breath [All Enemies, Mag Atk, Lightning Element,        |
|                              1400.625 Base Damage]                           |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Name: Schizo Right (Level: 43)            |Absorb: Fire                       |
|HP: 18000                                 |-----------------------------------|
|MP: 350                                   |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Exp: 2200                                 |Darkness                           |
|AP: 120                                   |                                   |
|Gil: 1500                                 |                                   |
|Drops: ---                                |                                   |
|Steal: Protect Ring                       |                                   |
|Morph: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Right Breath [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=10MP, Fire Element, 1089.375    |
|                       Base Damage]                                           |
|         Double Breath [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=10MP, Fire/Ice Element,        |
|                        1711.875 Base Damage]                                 |
|         Tremor [All Enemies, Mag Atk, Cost=8MP, Earth Element,               |
|                 747 Base Damage, Used as Counter Attack every 5th hit]       |
|         Final Attack Breath [All Enemies, Mag Atk, Lightning Element,        |
|                              1400.625 Base Damage;]                          |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: Before doing anything else, make sure you steal the rare Protect    |
|Ring from Schizo (Right), which is a great accessory. Immediately follow up   |
|with a casting of Big Guard afterwards.                                       |
|                                                                              |
|If you've come prepared with protection against Fire, Ice and perhaps Earth   |
|and Lightning then Schizo won't be too tough. Pummel the dragon with powerful |
|summons such as Alexander, Bahamut and Odin. Other powerful spells include    |
|Aqualung and Comet, although you'll want to refrain from casting Beta; one of |
|the heads absorbs fire.                                                       |
|                                                                              |
|When one of the heads dies it'll perform a Final Attack Breath which inflicts |
|over 1000 damage to all party members. It's worthwhile to keep Big Guard      |
|alive throughout the entire battle to prevent unnecessary casualties.         |
|                                                                              |
|An alternative strategy is to drain both heads from their MP completely. This |
|only takes four castings per head after which they'll be completely harmless, |
|their Final Attack aside.                                                     |
|                                                                              |
|You may find it useful to flip the help bar on during this battle by pressing |
|Select. Whenever you select one of Schizo's heads, the help bar automatically |
|tells you which target the left or right head is.                             |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

Either head back to the Save Point to heal up and save, or continue up ahead
and travel to the outskirts of the Northern Crater, the Whirlwind Maze.


                 Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                 ||           {28} Whirlwind Maze            ||        CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:| Neo Bahamut Materia, Hi-Potion, Ether, Kaiser Knuckle,          ||
||          | Reflect Ring(Boss Reward), MP Turbo Materia, Poison Ring.       ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

<Perfect Game Note 21:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In order to obtain 99 Gigas Armlets you'll need to steal them from the purple
giants called Gigas, which can be encountered during your descent.

You furthermore need to win an Earth Mallet from Gigas (and even an insane 99
when you don't want to do the W-Item trick). Remember that you can't win an item
if you've already successfully stolen from an enemy.

If you're doing a no escape game as well, you'll have to cope with Grenades on
here as well. The Protect Ring gives you some protection against their powerful
self destruct, while placing everyone in the back row and having them defend
also helps a great deal.

Note: If you're also following the Max Natural HP/MP challenge, things might get
rough around here and you may want to resort to the 'Extended W-Item' trick,
with which you can duplicate any armor (and weapons) that can be stolen from
you. Alternatively you can keep two characters dead to refrain them from getting
experience.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In case you're just looking for a decent armor, remember that Gigas Armlet
increases your Strength by +30 points! The downside of the armor is that it has
zero Materia growth.

Tifa joins in the next screen if she isn't already in your party. Simply
continue, collect the Neo Bahamut Materia in the next screen and head past the
Save Point to initiate a scene.

The next area has a dangerous whirlwind sweeping through the path, occasionally
blocking the way. The cloaked clones can be inspected to receive a Hi-Potion
and Ether. To cross the whirlwind, quickly make a run for it when the wind is
still for a moment. If Cloud gets swept back you'll have to fight a Wind Wing
enemy.

Note: The enemies around this area are mostly unique and never fought elsewhere.
You might want to take your time and fight each of them. Dragon Riders and
Killbins can be morphed into Mind Sources.

Collect a Kaiser Knuckle from the chest as you continue down the trail. The next
whirlwind has an additional green wave running through the regular barrier that
must also be avoided. Before proceeding to the last area, equip your party with
gear that protects against Fire. After a short scene, a boss battle starts.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Jenova*DEATH (Level: 55)            |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|HP: 25000                                 |-----------------------------------|
|MP: 800                                   |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Exp: 5000                                 |Slow, Paralysed, Darkness          |
|AP: 400                                   |                                   |
|Gil: 5000                                 |                                   |
|Drops: Reflect Ring(100%)                 |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                |                                   |
|Morph: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Red Light   [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=8MP, Fire, 843.75 Base Damage]   |
|         Tropic Wind [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=12MP, Fire, 750 Base Damage]     |
|         Silence     [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=24MP, Can inflict Silence]       |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: While Jenova*LIFE could only damage your party through Water-based  |
|attacks, Jenova*DEATH solely relies on Fire-based attacks. If you took our    |
|advice and came prepared with gear that protects against Fire, Jenova*DEATH   |
|can't lay a finger on you, should she have had any in the first place.        |
|                                                                              |
|Her Silence attack is no more than a slight annoyance. Pummel Jenova with     |
|powerful enemy skills and summons to end the battle quickly. Alternatively    |
|you can drain her MP entirely with Magic Hammer, but it's hardly necessary.   |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

After the battle, choose either Red XIII or Barret for safekeeping the Black
Materia and speak with Tifa to continue. Don't forget to collect the MP Turbo
Materia and grab the Poison Ring from the chest when you exit north.

The last whirlwind has yet another obstacle as you have to avoid the timed
lightning bolts zapping down the path at a fixed rate. When you reach the
whirlwind's epicenter, a large amount of scenes take place as the team finally
encounters the real Sephiroth.

                 Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                 ||          {29} Escape from Junon          ||        CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:| ---                                                             ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

After the long series of scenes you awaken as Tifa, somewhere in a prison cell
in Junon. Talk to Barret, then follow the escort - there's nothing else you can
do except use the Save Point you come across. After some scenes in the press
room, fight off the Attack Squad and check the gas chamber's door to initiate
another scene.

Team up with Cait Sith and exit the press room. Turn right, go outside and talk
to the reporter, who appears to be no one other than Yuffie. Make your way to
the elevator - try walking during the animation as you can't get into random
encounters at that time - and head for the Highwind.

Back at the gas chamber, Tifa is struggling for her life. There's no need to
worry about doing the following instructions within a time limit: Tifa can hold
her breath indefinitely. First you need to collect the key which the Shinra
Guard dropped, then you need to untie yourself with it. Either combination as
listed below works:

1) X, X, Triangle, X + Triangle, Triangle + Circle,   Circle.
2) X, X, Triangle, X + Triangle, Square   + Triangle, Square.

When you're out, press the button near the orange led in the corner to stop the
gas. While the door is locked shut, Sapphire Weapon is about to lend you a hand.
Simply make your escape off the canon - there is no way the soldiers can ever
catch up to you - and bitch slap Scarlet.  I could be mean and tell you that,
in order for a "perfect game", you're not allowed to ever let Scarlet hit Tifa,
but I'll save you from that horror.  In any case, the airship shows up just in
time for Tifa to make her escape.

Head in the cockpit and speak to Red XIII, Barret, Cid and the trainee pilot
respectively. After that, go to the Operation Room and speak with the crew
member to form a party, heal, or save your game. Now you're free to speak with
the pilot and take off!

     Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO CHECK-
     ||      {30} Flying High: Optional things with the Highwind      ||  LIST
Oo*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:| Elemental Materia, Fullcure Materia, Elixir, Magic Source,      ||
||          | Fourth Bracelet, Guard Source, Enemy Skill Materia,             ||
||          | Quadra Magic Materia, Chocobo Lure Materia.                     ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

Highwind Controls:
------------------
Circle        = Regular movement
Cross         = Land (only on grass)
Triangle      = Go to cockpit
Square [hold] = Strafe movement
D-Pad         = Movement
L1            = Left turn
R1            = Right turn
Start         = Map
Select        = Map

With the Highwind in your possession you've suddenly gained access to a whole
lot of new terrain on the world map. The Highwind can only land on grass areas
however, and won't land on rocky terrain, desert, or forest.

<Fort Condor Note 15:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The last optional battle of Fort Condor can now be fought. The man will tell
you that you've missed five battles, but that's due to sleepyhead Tifa who was
in coma for seven days. There is no way to actually ever do those five battles.
The prize for this last optional battle is again 3 Elixirs.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Optional Exploration:
---------------------
While not required, you can collect several new treasures all over the world,
most of which are very worthwhile.

Revisiting Old Places:
----------------------
o Many shops have new supplies of wares, such as the shops of Fort Condor,
  Junon, Rocket Town and Costa Del Sol (man in the bar). If you've gotten 300000
  gil from mastering an 'All' Materia you can also easily buy the villa and
  turn it into 'Villa Cloud'. The only benefit is that you can now rest here
  for free, but it's rather neat to have a villa next to the beach!

o If you visit Nibelheim and play Tifa's Piano (while you're in charge of Tifa)
  you'll receive an Elemental Materia. You only get this if you chose that you
  'jammed on it' in the Kalm Flashback.

o The Item Shop in Cosmo Canyon - located on the far right of the campfire -
  contains a few items you can collect now, as the backroom is now accessible.
  You can find the Fullcure Materia here, along with an Elixir and Magic Source.

o Rocket Town also has some new treasures. Collect the Fourth Bracelet from a
  chest in the weapon store, then go inside the Item Shop (with the old man
  outside) and look for a Guard Source in the backroom.

Chocobo Sage & 4th Enemy Skill Materia:
---------------------------------------
o Fly over to the northern continent and check the isolated house just northwest
  of the Corral Valley Cave. Inside you'll find a demented old man who was once
  known as the Chocobo Sage. Talk to his green(!) Chocobo and it'll spit out
  the fourth and final Enemy Skill Materia. The Chocobo Sage also sells a few
  rare nuts and greens.

  Tip: In order for the Chocobo Sage to remember more things regarding Chocobo
  Breeding, simply fight between 3 to 6 battles and he'll remember more.

<Perfect Game Note 22:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
With the fourth Enemy Skill Materia in hand, you can now complete the Wutai
Pagoda with Yuffie if you hadn't done so already. Before fighting Godo, equip
Yuffie with *ALL* Enemy Skill Materia that haven't learnt Trine yet, and *DO
NOT* equip her with any Enemy Skill Materia that already know the skill. Save
beforehand and double check after the fight if everything went well.

Note: You can only defeat Godo after you've obtained 99 All Creations (with
      Yuffie also having learnt this Limit Break) via the repeating boss fight
      trick.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Cactus Island & Tetra Elemental:
--------------------------------
o Fly straight south from Cosmo Canyon and search for a small island, mostly
  covered by desert. This is Cactus Island. In the desert area you can encounter
  Cactuers, little cacti enemies that morph into Tetra Elementals. This is a
  good accessory that absorbs Fire, Ice, Earth and Lightning.

  Cactuers pack a punch with their 100 Needles attack that always does 1000
  damage, while their normal 'Mystery Kick' does around 750 damage. They are
  also very hard to hit and you only have a 1/8th chance you can hit them
  normally with physical attacks. Fortunately, there are a few ways to morph
  them easily. The Cactuers are level 40, so if you cast the Enemy Skill L4
  Suicide on them they'll instantly be down to critically low HP. You've got two
  options at this point. You can either manipulate them, making them an easy
  target for morphing, or you can paralyse them using the item Dazers (gotten
  from Boundfat enemies in the Corral Valley, just north of the Sleeping
  Forest). If you get three Tetra Elementals you always have enough for your
  entire active party.

Goblin Island:
--------------
o Fly to the other side of the world map, to the islands northeast of the 
  eastern continent. The forests are inhabited by Goblins from which you can
  learn the Goblin Punch Enemy Skill, a physical attack with no MP cost. It does
  a lot of damage if your opponent's level is equal to your own. Take your time
  to steal a Zeio Nut or two from them too, which will come in handy during
  Chocobo Breeding.

Early Quadra Magic Materia:
---------------------------
o Fly the Highwind to the east of the Chocobo Ranch and look for a cave. This
  stretched continent lies adjacent to a cliff with grass area. It is actually
  possible to land the Highwind on the cliff and debark on the dirt area,
  allowing access to the cave that contains the Quadra Magic Materia.

  To do so, fly and land the Highwind near the cliff in such a matter that when
  land you are facing south. Steer the Highwind with Square and the D-Pad to
  make the landing easier. During the landing, hold the up/left buttons along
  with L1 - if all goes well you'll now be standing on the dirt area.

Here's a video that shows how it's done (on Youtube). All credits go out to the
original poster of the video. Go here: http://youtube.com/watch?v=vhDDj_b1hek

Second Chocobo Lure Materia:
----------------------------
o Collect a free Chocobo Lure Materia by walking to the right of the fence at
  the entrance. You'll also want to buy one Mimett Greens.


                 Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                 ||               {31} Mideel                ||        CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:| Contain Materia, Curse Ring, Elixir.                            ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

Mideel is found on the continent south of Fort Condor. It's a quiet little town
but it does hold a few secrets. Check out the shops and speak with the crazy
costumer: Apparently she's stocking up on supplies before Meteor hits. Of more
interest is her white baby chocobo. Give it your Mimett Greens it so eagerly
desires and tickle the birdie behind its ears to receive the Contain Materia.

<Perfect Game Note 23:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Make sure to talk to the crazy woman in every shop. This is crucial for later
when she'll have the items the shops used to sell. You definitely want to be
able to buy from her, or you may not be able to get 99 of some items. Having her
shop available is required for a Perfect Game either way.

Also make sure you collect the Curse Ring, which is detailed below.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Inside the weapon shop, inspect the door in the back to find that it can't be
opened. You have to inspect it nonetheless before you can continue with this
mini quest. Back outside, go over the wooden bridge to the left. The accessory
shop here doesn't sell much of interest, but you can find an item nearby the
man. When you hear a screechy sound, inspect the floor to find the 'Beat-Up
Useless Old Key'. Return to the weapon shop and try to open the door. Tell the
truth to the owner and he'll hand you the Curse Ring.

The Curse Ring is an excellent accessory which increases your stats like this:
Str +35, Mag +25, Dex +15, Vit +15, Spirit + 15, Luck + 10. However, at the
start of a battle you'll automatically be put in Death Sentence, killing the
equipped character within 60 seconds. You can easily counter this by casting
'Death Force' on the character.

Go back downstairs and talk to the dog to proceed with the game. Apparently
Cloud has been swept through the lifestream all the way to Mideel. After several
scenes, take Cid to the Operation Room and form a party.

Immediately go back inside Mideel and explore the house with two men nearby.
Inside you can grab an Elixir from the bed. It doesn't really matter what you
say, and both responses are funny.

              Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
              || {32} The Huge Materia: Corel and Fort Condor ||       CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure: | Ultima Materia, Catastophe, Phoenix Materia,                   ||
||           | Imperial Guard(Boss Reward).                                   ||
||-----------|                                                                ||
|| Key Items:| Huge Materia #1, Huge Materia #2.                              ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

North Corel:
------------
Head over to North Corel and walk all the way back to the Reactor. Defeat the
Attack Squad and pursue the train by alternating between the levers using the
Up + Triangle buttons. When you've caught up, the team automatically jumps over
to the other train.

Each wagon is defended by a fixed enemy encounter:

Wagon 1: Gas Ducter
-------------------
Finish it with a powerful attack such as Trine or Magic Breath.

Wagon 2: Gas Ducter x2
----------------------
Finish them with a powerful attack such as Trine or Magic Breath.

Wagon 3: Wolfmeister
--------------------
Wolfmeister is a unique enemy and has 10000 HP. The quickest method of beating
this giant is to use Laser a few times (alternatively Demi), then use Aqualung
as he's weak against Water.

Wagon 4: Eagle Gun
------------------
Eagle Gun is another unique enemy with 17000 HP. First of all, steal the unique
Warrior Bangle from Eagle Gun, then quickly finish it off with Laser and Magic
Breath.

Wagon 5: Attack Squad
---------------------
Quickly defeat the remaining soldier.

After making it to the front, stopping the train is all there's left to do.
Press the following combinations of buttons: Up + Triangle, Down + X, Down + X.
When you arrive at North Corel, depending on how well you performed the
following happens:

1. If you stopped the train: You receive the Huge Materia and the Ultima Materia
   for free.

2. If you made it on the other train, but failed to stop it then you won't
   receive the Huge Materia and you must pay 50000 gil if you want the Ultima
   Materia.

3. If you didn't even make it on the other train, the Huge Materia and Ultima
   Materia are both lost to you. Ultimate fail, literally!

After resting at the Inn, head outside and go into the building on the left.
Speak to the woman with the green hat and she'll hand you Barret's final Limit
Break, Catastrophe.

Fort Condor:
------------
Enter Fort Condor and talk to the man in charge of the battles. This will be the
very last battle you'll fight here, but there's a better strategy for this
particular fight.

By allowing the enemy to reach the shack you can fight a weak boss named CMD.
Grand Horn. He drops an Imperial Guard, a good and rare armor. 

<Perfect Game Note 24:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
It is possible (and required for a Perfect Game) to get two unique copies of
unmastered Phoenix Materia:

Do *NOT* go outside to pick up the Phoenix Materia. Instead, leave it alone and
head straight down (you can still speak with the old man at the table to get the
Huge Materia).

On Disc 3, head to Bone Village and search at spot 2 (upper level, to the right
of the ladder) to find the Phoenix Materia (after you've dug up the Buntline
here first). After digging it up, head back to Fort Condor to get the second
unique unmastered copy of Phoenix.

Here is a map with the exact spot (2) to dig at in Bone Village (Disc 3 only):

        http://www.gamefaqs.com/ps/197341-final-fantasy-vii/faqs/57001
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

By defeating CMD. Grand Horn you'll also save the day, allowing you to receive
the Huge Materia by talking to the old man at the table in the main area.

Note: If you happen to lose the boss battle it won't be game over. Instead
      you're NEVER allowed access to Fort Condor ever again.

              Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
              || {33} Cloud at Mideel + More optional things  ||       CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure: |  Premium Heart, Sneak Glove, Final Heaven.                     ||
||-----------|                                                                ||
|| Key Items:| Key to Sector 5.                                               ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

Return to Mideel to check on Cloud and Tifa. After talking to Tifa in the
clinic, all hell breaks loose: Ultimate Weapon is attacking!

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Ultimate Weapon (Level: 61)         |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|HP: 100000                                |-----------------------------------|
|MP: 400                                   |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Exp: 0                                    |Slow, Darkness                     |
|AP: 0                                     |                                   |
|Gil: 0                                    |                                   |
|Drops: ---                                |                                   |
|Steal: Curse Ring                         |                                   |
|Morph: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Quake2     [All Enemies, Mag Atk, Cost=28MP, Earth, 2079 Base Damage]|
|         Claw       [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 2100 Base Damage]                     |
|         Ultima Beam [All Enemies, Mag Atk, Cost=40MP, Hidden Element,        |
|                      2079 Base Damage];                                      |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: Start the battle by stealing the rare Curse Ring. There are only two|
|of these in the game, and this is the second. Quickly follow up with Big Guard|
|and then stay alive through the battle.                                       |
|                                                                              |
|Ultimate Weapon can't be defeated and will flee after several turns. You can  |
|deplete some of his HP to save you the trouble later, but winning the fight   |
|takes priority.                                                               |
|                                                                              |
|If you want to defend yourself from Ultima Beam, you could put an Elemental   |
|Materia, paired with ANY Materia that has no element (like independent        |
|materia) in your armor.                                                       |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

After the battle, many scenes take place. You'll eventually find yourself in
control of Tifa as she helps Cloud to remember the memories he has lost or
converted into other thoughts. First visit Nibelheim, then go to the well on
the left. The next piece of story unfolds at Tifa's room on the right, while
the conclusion can be found at Nibelheim. After succeeding in finding Cloud's
real identity, the team is re-united again.

With Mideel destroyed, the shops won't have much left for sale. The crazy
costumer however, who can now be found on the left side of the town, has all
goods for sale that the shops used to sell.

Optional Things:
----------------

Key to Sector 5
---------------
There are a few more optional things you can do at this point. Head back to
Bone Village and order a search. Skip the process of placing diggers, then walk
to the upper level and stand near the ledge, in the middle between the smoke
and the campfire to mark the correct spot. The next morning, collect the Key
Item 'Key to Sector 5' from the chest.

With this key in hand you can revisit Midgar. As you approach the gate it
appears the man here has lost his key. Tough luck! If you go inside the church
you can see Aeris' ghost, but there's nothing else to do around there.

Revisit Wall Market and enter the store that says 'Item'. Inside, try and use
the machine to receive the Premium Heart. It is worthwhile to place both Tifa
and Cid in your party when you attempt this to view a hilarious extra scene.

Pay a visit to the weapon store up north and talk to the man who sold you the
batteries aeons ago. The sucker offers you a new bargain for the not-so-low
price of 129000 gil. Your reward for spitting out this money? The unique Sneak
Glove, and accessory that greatly increases your chances when stealing.

Final Heaven
------------
Head to Nibelheim with Tifa in your party and go to Tifa's piano. Play the tune
like before: X, [], Triangle, R1+Triangle, R1+[], X, [], Triangle, R1+X, O, X,
[], X, and press start to end. You'll receive Tifa's final Limit Break,
Final Heaven.

Gold Saucer
-----------
The Gold Saucer has finally re-opened again, meaning you can participate in the
Chocobo Races and breed Chocobos more easily. An in-depth guide is available at
the Chocobo Breeding sections.

Four caves on the world map are only accessible by Chocobos (with the exception
of the Quadra Magic Materia cave - see before). The other caves contain Mime,
HP<->MP, and the famous Knights of Round Materia. Also see section {OPT-7.16}.

                 Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                 ||       {34} The Underwater Reactor        ||        CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure: | Battle Trumpet, Scimitar.                                      ||
||-----------|                                                                ||
|| Key Items:| Leviathan Scales.                                              ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

There's another Huge Materia stashed away at the Underwater Reactor at Junon.
Enter Junon Harbor and pay the soldier at the elevator the grand amount of 10
gil. Make your way to the main streets and Cloud mentions the cannon is missing.

Walk all the way out of the streets until you reach a grey corridor. Ride the
elevator down and defeat the two Submarine Crew inside. As you exit, two more
soldiers assault you. Continue down the halls since you can't get past the dog
at this time, until you reach the Underwater Reactor. Ride the fancy elevator
deep down the reactor and proceed through several more halls until you reach
several Underwater MP's. You can steal a Shinra Alpha armor from the soldiers
in beige uniform, a half decent piece of armor. At the docks you'll encounter
Reno, who has an unpleasant surprise for you in store.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Carry Armor (Level: 45)             |Weakness: Lightning                |
|HP: 24000 [10000 for each arm]            |Nullifies: Gravity, Poison         |
|MP: 200   [100 for each arm]              |-----------------------------------|
|Exp: 2800 [1400, 1500 for the arms]       |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|AP: 240   [95, 90 for the arms]           |---                                |
|Gil: 4000 [--- for the arms]              |                                   |
|Drops: God's Hand                         |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                |                                   |
|Morph: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Lapis Laser    [All Enemies, Mag Atk, Cost=10MP, 1875 Base Damage]   |
|         Damage Attack  [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, 562.5 Base Damage,                 |
|                         100% Counter Attack];                                |
|         Arm Grab       [100% Imprisons Character]                            |
|         Arm Punch      [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 624 Base Damage]                  |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: Carry Armor is one of the tougher bosses in the game, not in the    |
|least place since the machine can grab two characters with its arms,          |
|imprisoning them and rendering them useless while in that state. Its Lapis    |
|Laser attack deals a grand total of up to 1875 damage to all who remains.     |
|                                                                              |
|There's an easy solution: Cast Magic Hammer twice on Carry Armor and it will  |
|no longer be able to use Lapis Laser. In case you don't want to be cheap,     |
|survive this battle with a casting of Big Guard and pound Carry Armor with    |
|Magic Breath, Bolt3 and your best summons while maintaining a healthy amount  |
|of HP through the usage of White Wind.                                        |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

Carry Armor drops the God's Hand, a good weapon for Tifa. Collect the Battle
Trumpet from the chest on the left and approach the second submarine in the
back. Before boarding, first collect the Scimitar and the Leviathan Scales from
the chests on your right. These are missable, so be sure to immediately collect
them. The Scimitar is one of the two weapons that has triple Materia growth,
making it unique.

Enter the submarine, defeating several marines while passing through. When you
get to the bridge you bump into your buddies from the parade - we suggest you
take them hostage as the battle doesn't grant any rewards besides regular battle
spoils.

Check the manual and start the submarine mini game. The most important things
you need to know is that the square button fires torpedoes, triangle increases
your moving speed and cross slows the submarine down. You already start behind
the red submarine that you must wreck, so quickly align yourself behind it,
allow the game to automatically lock on and unload several torpedoes until it
sinks - this only takes a few salvos. In case you lose track of the red sub,
several other yellow submarines will need to be dealt with. Try pressing R1 for
a quick overview in order to locate the red sub once again.

After the mini game you'll have gained a new vehicle, the gray Shinra Submarine!

Note: In case you lose the minigame (by not destroying the red submarine within
      ten minutes), head back to Junon and go through the door that was
      previously blocked by the dog - losing the minigame is the only way to
      remove the dog and allow access in this elusive area. Here you'll find
      that the red submarine has returned, and while the Huge Materia has
      already been shipped, you can now seize the red submarine and make it
      your own. You will never be able to collect all Huge Materia this way,
      however.

Head back to Junon and ride the elevator. Check the airport to find that you've
just missed your flight. Better catch up quickly!

                 Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                 ||{35} The Gelnika and other optional things||        CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:| Heaven's Cloud, Megalixir, Escort Guard, Double Cut Materia,    ||
||          | Conformer, Megalixir, Spirit Lance, Hades Materia, Outsider,    ||
||          | Highwind, Death Penalty, Chaos, Oritsuru, Steal as Well Materia.||
||----------|                                                                 ||
||Key Items:| Key to the Ancients, Huge Materia #3.                           ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

Now that the submarine is in your possession, the deep blue sea can be explored.
There are a few things to be explored down there, so let's have a look.

WARNING: The big green creature roaming the sea is Emerald WEAPON, one of the
optional powerhouse bosses in the game. We highly suggest leaving it alone, as
ramming it with the submarine is likely to mean game over if you're not
extremely well prepared.


The Red Wrecked Submarine
-------------------------
Submerge at Junon and start exploring the southwest depths of the ocean until
you locate the downed red submarine. This nets you the third Huge Materia.


The Sunken Gelnika {OPT-7.7}
----------------------------
Get in the sub but don't submerge just yet. First sail to the south of Costa
del Sol until you're nearby the Gold Saucer. Submerge here and look around for
a sunken airplane.

Note: There is a 1/8th chance that Emerald WEAPON is lurking in front of the
      Gelnika. If this is the case, emerge and submerge (if necessary multiple
      times) to move Emerald to a different location. Since Emerald can also
      lurk in front of the Gelnika as you exit the sunken airplane, always save
      your game before exiting the area.

Note: The Gelnika is home to some of the most powerful creatures in the game,
      so be extremely careful as you search the area.

The first hallway has no encounters, a chest with Heaven's Cloud and a Save
Point that is best used right now. Explore the upper room first and walk across
the bridge on the left to grab the Megalixir from the chest on the right. Walk
back and head right to collect an Escort Guard from another chest. Proceed
downstairs and closely check the upper right corner to find the concealed Double
Cut Materia. Lastly, check the upper left corner for a completely hidden chest
containing the Conformer, Yuffie's Ultimate Weapon.

Tip: The Conformer deals damage according to the enemy's level. Because of this
     feature, the morph command is not reduced to 1/8th of the regular damage.
     In other words, Yuffie can use the morph command at full strength, which
     is something that will come in handy especially in the Gelnika as you'll
     soon find.

From the main hall with the save point, exit to the hall on the left where you
encounter Reno and Rude, who aren't about to let you have any of the treasure
stashed in the cargo room. Equipment that prevents confusion (such as Ribbons)
can be of use in the boss battle.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Turks:Reno (Level: 42)              |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|HP: 15000                                 |-----------------------------------|
|MP: 230                                   |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Exp: 5000                                 |Poison, Slow, Stop, Paralysed,     |
|AP: 300                                   |Darkness                           |
|Gil: 4000                                 |                                   |
|Drops: ---                                |                                   |
|Steal: Tough Ring                         |                                   |
|Morph: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Short Staff    [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 780 Base Damage]                  |
|         Neo Turk Light [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Causes 100% Confusion]             |
|         Electropod 2 [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, Lightning Element, 2652 Base Damage]|
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Name: Turks:Rude (Level: 49)              |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|HP: 20000                                 |-----------------------------------|
|MP: 280                                   |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Exp: 5500                                 |Poison, Slow, Stop, Paralysed,     |
|AP: 360                                   |Darkness                           |
|Gil: 5000                                 |                                   |
|Drops: Elixir(100%)                       |                                   |
|Steal: Ziedrich                           |                                   |
|Morph: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Shoulder Attack [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 2346 Base Damage]                |
|         Bolt2 [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=22MP, Lightning, 930 Base Damage]      |
|         Fire2 [1 Enemy, Mag Atk; Cost=22MP, Fire, 930 Base Damage]           |
|         Ice2  [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=22MP, Ice Element, 930 Base Damage]    |
|         Cure2 [1 Ally, Mag Atk, Cost=24MP, 1514 Base Healing]                |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: Before doing anything else, steal the Tough Ring from Reno, and the |
|Ziedrich from Rude. These items are extremely rare and powerful, so they're   |
|well worth stealing.                                                          |
|                                                                              |
|After snatching those items, put up Big Guard and start to pummel Reno and    |
|Rude with powerful attacks. If you use Yuffie she'll be able to sort out      |
|excellent damage with her Conformer, especially if paired with the Double Cut |
|Materia. Otherwise, simply pound away with powerful summons, enemy skills or  |
|physical attacks. Poisoning and paralyzing them can help, but hard-hitting    |
|attacks will still end the fight faster.                                      |
|                                                                              |
|Interestingly, Rude will still not attack Tifa. He'll only attack her if she's|
|the last party member standing and even then he'll attack her only 2 out of 3 |
|times. Rude will never use attack magic on Tifa. Sucks to be in love, Rude!   |
|Now kick his butt, Tifa!                                                      |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

Enter the cargo room after the fight to collect the last few treasures. Find a
Megalixir in the first chest, then walk all the way to the end of the upper
walkway and loot the chest on the very right for the Spirit Lance.

Downstairs lies the Hades Summon Materia nearby the wrecked helicopter. Search
the lower area of the screen to find chests with the Outsider and Highwind,
Cid's final Limit Break.

As far as treasure goes, that's all there is to the Gelnika. However, the
creatures that roam this place can all be morphed into stat-boosting sources
and you can get all six different sources from here, allowing you to boost all
your character's stats to the maximum value of 255.

The hallway where you fought the Turks contains the Bad Rap and Poodler enemies,
which morph in Luck and Speed Sources. The Cargo Room contains Unknown 1, 2, 3
and Serpents, which morph into the other types of sources. If you start morphing
we suggest to use Yuffie with her Conformer, the ideal morphing combination.
More information on stat maxing is available in the stat maxing section of this
guide.


Lucrecia's Cave (Death Penalty & Chaos)
---------------------------------------
Emerge with the sub and sail slightly north of Costa Del Sol until you reach a
desert with a river nearby. Submerge, and head through the tunnel. Emerge at the
end of the tunnel and enter the secret cave behind the waterfall with Vincent in
your party to view a scene.

Return to Lucrecia's Cave after fighting 10 battles and come back here with
Vincent once again to receive the Death Penalty and Chaos, Vincent's Ultimate
Weapon and Limit Break respectively. You can't fight battles just outside the
lake, so you'll have to do that elsewhere.


Key to the Ancients
-------------------
This part is not actually optional, but you can postpone it until later in the
game. Submerge with the submarine once again for better navigation and sail over
to nearby Bone Village. Submerge and look around for another tunnel in which you
can find the Key Item the 'Key to the Ancients'. If you check your world map
it is clearly visible that the location of this key is located directly under
the Forgotten Capital, indeed the City of the Ancients.


The Da-chao Fire Cavern
-----------------------
Head back to Junon and hop back in the Highwind. Fly over to Wutai and go
straight to the Da-chao statues. Remember the cave with the intense flames?
With the Leviathan Scales you collected earlier at the submarine docks you can
now pass these fierce flames, allowing you to reach the Oritsuru - a good weapon
for Yuffie - and the Steal as Well Materia from the back of the flames.

                 Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                 ||        {36} A Space Odyssey 1997         ||        CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure: | Venus Gospel.                                                  ||
||-----------|                                                                ||
|| Key Items:| Huge Materia #4.                                               ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

Head over to Rocket Town now. If you didn't get the Fourth Bracelet from the
Weapon Shop, and the Guard Source from the Item shop earlier, do so now. Head to
the Rocket, and Cid will join your party on your way if he isn't already in it.
Beat the several attack squads and climb up. Here you'll face Rude again.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Turks:Rude (Level: 42)              |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|HP: 9000                                  |-----------------------------------|
|MP: 240                                   |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Exp: 3400                                 |Poison, Slow, Stop, Paralysed,     |
|AP: 80                                    |Darkness                           |
|Gil: 3000                                 |                                   |
|Drops: Hi-Potion(100%)                    |                                   |
|Steal: Ziedrich                           |                                   |
|Morph: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Bolt2           [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=22MP, Lightning, 540 Dmg]    |
|         Cure2           [1 Ally, Mag Atk, Cost=24MP, 1202 Base Healing]      |
|         MBarrier        [1 Ally, Mag Atk, Cost=24MP, Causes 100% MBarrier]   |
|         Shoulder Attack [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 882 Base Damage]                 |
|         Grand Spark     [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, 648 Base Damage]                  |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: The Attack Squad will only be literally standing in your way, so    |
|dispatch them first.  Stealing Rude's Ziedrich is a very smart next move,     |
|considering it's a rare and powerful armor.  To win this battle, follow with  |
|a casting of Big Guard and pummel Rude with your most powerful attacks to     |
|quickly deplete his HP.                                                       |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

Inside the rocket you'll be forced to battle one last grunt before entering the
control room.  A few scenes are initiated which will probably have you wondering
how Palmer survived the truck incident.  After the scenes, head right and climb
up to find the last Huge Materia sealed away.  To release the lock, simply
press O, Square, X, X.  Return to the cockpit, then make your way to the escape
pods down below to trigger more scenes.

When you're back in control, return to Rocket Town and talk three times to the
old man who always used to admire his rocket.  He'll go ahead and give you the
Venus Gospel, Cid's Ultimate Weapon.  This weapon's strength is based on how
full Cid's MP is - the more filled his MP is, the stronger the weapon.

              Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
              || {37} The Key to the Ancients + Diamond Weapon||       CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure: | Bahamut Zero Materia.                                          ||
||-----------|                                                                ||
|| Key Items:| Key to the Ancient (if not gotten already).                    ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

In order to proceed with the story you'll need the key item Key to the Ancients.
You might've already gotten this during your exploring in the submarine.  In
case you hadn't, consult the World Map at the end of this book to find its
exact underwater location, essentially directly underneath the Forgotten
Capital. [World map only available in printed edition.]

If you've successfully collected all Huge Materia you'll soon be able to get
extra Materia from them.  If you happened to fail one or more missions you are
awarded Huge Materia according to the mechanics below.

Fail Nothing:    You will have 4: Yellow, Green, Red, Blue.
Fail 1 Mission:  You will have 3: Yellow, Green, Red.
Fail 2 Missions: You will have 2: Yellow, Green.
Fail 3 Missions: You will have 1: Yellow.
Fail 4 Missions: You will have 0.

Return to Bugenhagen at Cosmo Canyon and he'll safekeep the Huge Materia for
you.  Inspect the Blue Huge Materia, and if you've acquired the Bahamut and
Neo Bahamut Summons it will grant you the Bahamut ZERO Materia.

Note: If you failed any of the prerequisites to obtain the Bahamut ZERO Materia
      you'll still be able to dig it up at Bone Village.

Hop back into the Highwind and land it right next to the Forgotten Capital.
Head left at the intersection and head back to the circular room.  Walk to the
center to initiate more scenes and as you try to leave the area the team is
confronted with an abrupt crisis: Diamond Weapon has emerged from the sea and
is headed straight for Midgar!

Back on the world map, wait for Diamond WEAPON to walk ashore.  Bumping the
Highwind into Diamond WEAPON only angers Cid, so trigger the boss battle by
running towards the beast.

Tip: This battle rewards you with a LOT of Experience and AP, so it's a good
     idea to equip double growth equipment and avoid non-growth equipment such
     as Ultimate Weapons and certain armor such as the Warrior Bangle and the
     Gigas Armlet.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Diamond Weapon (Level: 49)          |Weakness: Lightning                |
|HP: 30000                                 |Halves: Fire                       |
|MP: 30000                                 |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|Exp: 35000                                |-----------------------------------|
|AP: 3500                                  |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Gil: 25000                                |Slow, Darkness                     |
|Drops: ---                                |                                   |
|Steal: Rising Sun                         |                                   |
|Morph: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Diamond Fire  [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Fire Element, 891 Base Damage]      |
|         Foot Stamp    [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, 1188 Base Damage]                   |
|         Diamond Flash [All Enemies, Mag Atk, Damage = HP * 7/8,              |
|                        Causes 100% Silence, Only used after Countdown];      |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: Diamond WEAPON is invulnerable to physical attacks at the start of  |
|the battle, and this only changes when it counts down to perform its Diamond  |
|Flash attack.  This attack can't kill you since it inflicts 7/8th damage of   |
|your HP, although it does inflict Silence unless you're protected.            |
|                                                                              |
|Start the battle off by stealing the Rising Sun from Diamond, a unique weapon |
|for Yuffie.  Get your defense rolling with Big Guard and start pounding the   |
|creature with Summons, Comet and Magic Breath, among your other favorite      |
|attacks.  Bolt3 is an especially effective spell due to Diamond's weakness to |
|lightning-based spells.  Fire-based spells will be halved; keep that in mind. |
|It's possible to slow Diamond WEAPON, although a series of powerful castings  |
|should end this battle soon enough.                                           |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

After several more scenes, the story requires you to fly over the Northern
Crater first, followed by flying over Midgar to continue.

Ultimate WEAPON will spawn at the crater nearby Junon after you've dealt with
Diamond WEAPON.  While it's possible to defeat it on Disc 2, destroying it on
Disc 3 is easier as the creature tends to rest at both the Northern Crater and
Midgar, sometimes forcing you to continue with the story.

                 Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                 ||      {38} Stopping Midgar's Cannon!      ||        CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:| Elixir, Megalixir, Aegis Armlet, Elixir, Starlight Phone,       ||
||          | Max Ray, Power Source, Guard Source, Mind Source, Magic Source, ||
||          | W-Item Materia, Behemoth Horn, Pile Bunker, Master Fist,        ||
||          | Grow Lance, Mind Source, Speed Source, HP Shout, Elixir,        ||
||          | Mystile, Missing Score.                                         ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

Once you're all set, fly the Highwind over Midgar to parachute down.  During
this scene you can actually make Cloud roll over in all directions, just for
fun.  On solid ground, proceed to the next screen and head down the ladder.

Explore the upper right of the area first in order to reach a chest with an
Elixir on the left side of the intersection, and a chest with a Megalixir on
the right side.  From your starting position, walk down the long stairs and
climb down the ladder to the next screen.

Make sure to go left first and climb the ridiculously long ladder to reach a
chest with the rare Aegis Armlet.  Take the right path only after collecting all
previously mentioned items (as the floor breaks, forcing you to continue). Head
left, go up the ladder and follow the path until you have to walk through a
tube.  In the next screen, collect an Elixir from the chest to the right and the
Starlight Phone from the chest on the left.

Before heading upstairs, climb down and enter the tube.  This will lead you to
a ladder with the Max Ray on top.  Climb the previously mentioned stairs, save
your game and crawl through the tube to reach the next area.

Tip: Equip your party members with Ribbons to grant immunity to Confusion.

Note: In this area it's possible to avoid the upcoming boss battle with the
      Turks altogether.  Walk up to the pillar to the right of Cloud as he
      climbs out the ventilation shaft.  The ground around this pillar is
      slightly raised compared to the rest of the tunnel.  Carefully walk around
      the pillar by going counter clockwise, and stay on the raised area.
      This avoids the 'encounter trigger line' which was programmed lower.

The team meets the Turks one last time, but if you completed the Wutai sidequest
in which Yuffie stole your Materia, you'll be given the option to fight or not.
It is highly advisable to fight this battle, or you'll miss out on a chance to
steal three very rare and valuable pieces of equipment.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Turks:Reno (Level: 50)              |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|HP: 25000                                 |Absorbs: Lightning                 |
|MP: 200                                   |-----------------------------------|
|Exp: 4500                                 |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|AP: 450                                   |Poison, Slow, Darkness             |
|Gil: 3000                                 |                                   |
|Drops: Elixir                             |                                   |
|Steal: Tough Ring                         |                                   |
|Morph: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Short Staff [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 905 Base Damage]                     |
|         Turk Light [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, 697.5 Base Damage]                     |
|         Electropod [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, Lightning Element, 2172 Base Damage]  |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Name: Turks:Rude (Level: 51)              |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|HP: 28000                                 |Absorbs: Fire                      |
|MP: 250                                   |-----------------------------------|
|Exp: 5500                                 |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|AP: 600                                   |Poison, Slow, Darkness             |
|Gil: 5000                                 |                                   |
|Drops: Elixir                             |                                   |
|Steal: Ziedrich                           |                                   |
|Morph: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Shoulder Attack [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 2955 Base Damage]                |
|         Grand Spark     [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, 1206 Base Damage]                 |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Name: Turks:Elena (Level: 53)             |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|HP: 30000                                 |Absorbs: Ice                       |
|MP: 100                                   |-----------------------------------|
|Exp: 6400                                 |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|AP: 800                                   |Poison, Slow, Darkness             |
|Gil: 7000                                 |                                   |
|Drops: ---                                |                                   |
|Steal: Minerva Band                       |                                   |
|Morph: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Kick       [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 1427.5 Base Damage]                   |
|         Bewildered [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Can cause Confusion]                   |
|         Throw1     [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 1142 Base Damage]                     |
|         Throw2     [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 856.5 Base Damage]                    |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: Start off by stealing the Tough Ring, Ziedrich and Minerva Band from|
|Reno, Rude and Elena respectively.  Follow up with your favorite defensive    |
|enemy skill Big Guard and end the battle by casting several powerful summons, |
|or by simply pounding away with powerful physical attacks if some of your     |
|characters already have their Ultimate Weapons.                               |
|                                                                              |
|You'll want to stay away from Lighting, Ice and Fire attacks to avoid healing |
|any one of the Turks.  Keep in mind that the others will flee as soon as you  |
|deplete the HP of any single Turk.  To claim all battle spoils in the form of |
|a decent amount of Experience and AP, try wiping them out all at once with a  |
|summon such as Bahamut ZERO.                                                  |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

After the battle you can actually choose which way you go.  The story requires
you to head up, but going down the tunnels nets you several very useful items.
Keep your eyes out for chests holding a Power Source, Guard Source, Mind Source
and Magic Source.  The W-Item Materia can be found at the very far lower end of
the tunnels.

Tip: The W-Item Materia allows you to duplicate any item that can be used in
     battle, and with an advanced technique even items that cannot be used
     in battle.  To duplicate an item that can be used in battle, follow these
     instructions:

     Suppose you have 1 Megalixir that you want to duplicate.  Fight a battle
     and have someone equipped with the W-Item Materia.  Select the W-Item
     command, select the Megalixir and use it.  Then move your cursor to any
     other item you can use and press Circle.  After this, press X to cancel.
     You'll now have two Megalixirs. Press Circle, X, Circle, X and repeat to
     duplicate the Megalixir to a maximum of 99.  You only need one copy of an
     item to be able to duplicate it.

<Perfect Game Note 25:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Make sure you steal 99 Graviballs from Shadow Makers in the tunnels. Of course,
with the W-Item Materia, life's a lot easier.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Backtrack to the tunnel where you fought the Turks.  This screen has a ladder
on the left side.  From here, head north to reach an intersection.  The optional
Shinra Building is located to the right, but it's your very last chance to
revisit it and collect many rare items.

After going right at the intersection you'll reach another fork.  The right path
leads to a dead end, so continue left to reach Shinra's HQ.  If you take your
time to walk the long stairs once again, your reward will be the unique and
elusive Behemoth Horn for Red XIII.  Whether you did or didn't pick up the
Elixir during your first visit doesn't matter.  In fact, you can also collect
this if you hadn't before.

Going through the main entrance, make sure you read the Turtle's Paradise Flyer
No.2 if you hadn't during you first visit.  Walk the stairs up to the second
floor and explore the item shop behind the green doors in the corner.  With the
lady absent you can now collect the Pile Bunker and Master first from these two
chests.

Ride the glass elevator at the first floor's entrance lobby to the 63rd floor
and collect the Grow Lance from one of the rooms.  The 64th floor is also worth
a visit.  Check out the vending machine in the upper left corner of the fitness
room to receive a Mind Source and a Speed Source.  Definitely collect the HP
Shout from the last row of the locker room, which is Cait Sith's Ultimate
Weapon.  This is your only chance of collecting it.

While you can further climb the stairs to reach the highest floors, you can
never fully access these seemingly unchanged floors.  Backtrack to the tunnel
intersection and follow the left path to continue with the story.  Climb up and
the team is interrupted by the new toy of Scarlet and Heidegger; Proud Clod.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Proud Clod (Level: 53)              |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|HP: 60000                                 |-----------------------------------|
|MP: 320                                   |                                   |
|Exp: 7000                                 |                                   |
|AP: 1000                                  |                                   |
|Gil: 10000                                |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Drops: Ragnarok                           |---                                |
|Steal: ---                                |                                   |
|Morph: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Big Hand Clash [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 774 Base Damage]                  |
|         Wrist Laser [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 774 Base Damage]                     |
|         Knee Fire [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 774 Base Damage]                       |
|         Knee Blend [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 774 Base Damage]                      |
|         W Machine Gun [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 1354.5 Base Damage]                |
|         Beam Cannon [All Enemies, Mag Atk, Cost=32MP, 1297.5 Base Damage]    |
|         Materia-jammer [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=16MP, Causes 100% Reflect]    |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Name: Jamar Armor (Level: 62)             |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|HP: 20000                                 |-----------------------------------|
|MP: 300                                   |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Exp: 8000                                 |Darkness                           |
|AP: 1500                                  |                                   |
|Gil: 10000                                |                                   |
|Drops: ---                                |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                |                                   |
|Morph: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: ---                                                                  |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: Proud Clod looks as intimidating as it is weak.  The robot's attacks|
|don't cause much damage and only its Beam Cannon targets all party members.   |
|Destroying its Jamar Armor nets you extra battle spoils and it's advisable to |
|so this.                                                                      |
|                                                                              |
|In order to dispatch Proud Clod, get your defense going with Big Guard and    |
|pummel the machine with powerful physical attacks and high-end magic such as  |
|Comet and summons from the Bahamut family.  Be careful with healing after     |
|Materia-jammer puts reflect on your entire party.  Proud Clod isn't quite     |
|cut out to be a WEAPON slayer!                                                |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

The next screen contains an Elixir and the Mystile armor in chests.  The Mystile
is arguably the best armor in the game with the highest evasion stats of any
armor, normally allowing you to dodge over half the attacks thrown at you.

<Perfect Game Note 26:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Steal 99 of the 8inch Cannon item, from Grosspanzer.  This enemy can be found
anywhere on this screen with the save point.  Of course, the W-Item Trick can
save you a lot of time as one copy of the item will do fine.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

<Perfect Game Note 27:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Feel free to save your game and place Barret in your party, if only for a short
while to collect his Ultimate Weapon, the Missing Score, which only shows up
when you have him in your party.  Go upstairs and find the chest on these stairs
in the next screen.  Either swap or keep Barret in your party after collecting
it.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

<Perfect Game Note 28:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In this area, steal 99 Shinra Alpha's from SOLDIER:1st.  You can increase the
steal rate slightly with the Sneak Glove if you have it.  Cranking the battle
speed up to the max also shaves off some time.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The stairs lead you to Hojo, who isn't about to give up without a fight.  Equip
your characters with Ribbon(s) and (high-levelled) Counter Attack Materias.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Hojo (Level: 50)                    |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|HP: 13000                                 |-----------------------------------|
|MP: 250                                   |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Exp: 0                                    |Darkness                           |
|AP: 0                                     |                                   |
|Gil: 0                                    |                                   |
|Drops: ---                                |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                |                                   |
|Morph: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Capsule [Revives Bad Rap Sample & Poodler Sample]                    |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Name: Helletic Hojo (Level: 55)           |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|HP: 26000 (Left Arm=24000/Right Arm=5000) |-----------------------------------|
|MP: 200   (Left Arm=400/Right Arm=300)    |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Exp: 0                                    |Darkness                           |
|AP: 0                                     |                                   |
|Gil: 0                                    |                                   |
|Drops: ---                                |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                |                                   |
|Morph: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Pile Banger [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 1962.6 Base Damage, Only used when   |
|                      Right Arm is alive]                                     |
|         Bio Gas     [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=15MP, 690 Base Damage,           |
|                      Causes 100% Poison]                                     |
|         Confu       [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=18MP, Can inflict Confusion]     |
|         Sleepel     [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=8MP, Can inflict Sleep]          |
|         Silence     [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=24MP, Can inflict Silence]       |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Name: Lifeform-Hojo N (Level: 58)         |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|HP: 30000                                 |-----------------------------------|
|MP: 100                                   |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Exp: 25000                                |Stop, Darkness                     |
|AP: 2500                                  |                                   |
|Gil: 6000                                 |                                   |
|Drops: Power Source                       |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                |                                   |
|Morph: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Absorb  [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=2MP, 555 Base Damage]                |
|         Silence [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=24MP, Can inflict Silence,           |
|                  Used as 100% Counter Attack versus magic attacks]           |
|         Slow    [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=20MP, Causes 100% Slow]              |
|         Combo   [1 Enemy, 4 Phys Atk, 257.5 + 618 + 360.5 + 824 Base Damage, |
|                  Can inflict Poison, Darkness & Sleep]                       |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: The fight with Hojo consists of three phases.  Equipping your       |
|characters with Ribbons will make the battles easier.                         |
|                                                                              |
|The first phase is easy, and Hojo will only use a capsule to spawn two sample |
|creatures.  Kill Hojo and his samples will go down with him.                  |
|                                                                              |
|The second form is tougher and has two separate arms you can target.  The arms|
|will revive quickly after dispatching them, so it's best to focus on the main |
|body.  Attacks such as Magic Breath deal solid damage and are a nice change of|
|just physical attacks.                                                        |
|                                                                              |
|The third form is the most dangerous and attacks with a physical combo which  |
|hits four consecutive times and inflicts Poison, Darkness and Sleep.  If you  |
|equip your characters with Counter Attack Materia you'll get a chance to      |
|counter each single attack from the combo.  Magical attacks are countered by  |
|Hojo with a casting of Silence, although protective gear will help you avoid  |
|this nuisance.  Hojo is vulnerable to Stop, although pounding away with hard  |
|hitting physical attacks and strong summons will soon fell him.               |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

Note: If Tifa's affection value is 50+, the dialogue between her and Cloud will
      be slightly different during her conversation with Cloud while sitting
      under the Highwind.


                 Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                 ||         {39} The Northern Crater         ||        CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:| Save Crystal, Guard Source, Guard Source, Mind Source,          ||
||          | Magic Source, Elixir, Power Source, HP Absorb Materia,          ||
||          | Power Source, Mind Source, Megalixir, Hero Drink, Guard Source, ||
||          | Power Source, Remedy, Elixir, X-Potion, Turbo Ether, Vaccine,   ||
||          | Magic Counter Materia, X-Potion, Turbo Ether, Mega All Materia, ||
||          | Speed Source, Mystile, Elixir, Tetra Elemental, Speed Source,   ||
||          | Megalixir, Megalixir, Magic Source, Remedy, Shield Materia,     ||
||          | Imperial Guard, Vaccine, Hero Drink, (Command) Counter Materia, ||
||          | W-Magic Materia, Luck Source.                                   ||
||----------|                                                                 ||
||          | Best Combination Duplicates of Items: Mystile, Shield Materia,  ||
||          | Vaccine, (Command) Counter Materia, Imperial Guard.             ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

It's possible to exit the Northern Crater at any time, even after entering, and
there are various optional things left to do in the world. Refer to the next
section to view your options.

Climb down the ladder and walk down the rocky steps.  Confirm to enter the
crater and Cloud will automatically venture down.  A word of advice beforehand:
There are several enemies in the crater which have instant-death attacks, and
since Ribbons do *not* protect against sudden death, equip at least one of your
characters with a Safety Bit.

Tip: If you want to exit the crater, simply enter the first cave doorway and
     climb up.  You can do this any time you like.

Collect the Save Crystal from the first chest.  This item allows you to create
one Save Point anywhere in the Northern Crater.  Since you can only do this
*once*, think ahead before using it.  We'll give you some advice later.

Note: There's a known glitch where you don't obtain the Save Crystal.  It's
      fairly uncommon, but we'll detail it in any case.  It occurs if you open
      the chest of the Save Crystal while the animation of rocks falling down
      is still in motion.  The text 'Received Save Crystal!' will still appear,
      but you can still move around.  If you exit the crater through the cave
      doorway, the Save Crystal is not saved to your inventory.  You can never
      obtain another Save Crystal afterwards.

Walk down the spiral path and grab a Guard Source from the second chest. You can
also learn the Dragon Force enemy skill from Dark Dragons here. When you get to
the next screen, you can choose to go down by the left or right side. First head
down by the right side and collect a Guard Source from the chest. Jump down and
head back on the right to grab a Mind Source from the lonely chest. Now head
back up via the left side, and collect the Magic Source from the first chest.
Climb up some more to find an Elixir inside the next chest you pass by. The
chest on the upper left contains a Power Source, and if you walk to the right
from this ledge you can also grab the shiny HP Absorb Materia.  To exit, proceed
to the next screen through the bottom of this area.

The next area looks like a maze, but it's fairly easy to navigate.  Jump off the
small ledge (which you can jump up to at any time you'd like).  From here you
can go left or right.

Go right first and Cloud will drop down.  Collect a Mind Source from the chest
to your left, then stand on the right end of the ledge - facing left - and jump
up.  Walk to the other side and enter the cave to find a Megalixir.  Exit the
cave and walk a little to the left to drop down to a lower level, allowing you
to collect a Hero Drink from the chest to the right.

Enter the cave and collect the Guard Source inside another chest.  The other
chest can be accessed by going through the tunnel, of which the entrance can be
found slightly under the chest - it holds a Power Source.  Exit the cave by the
top of the screen, walk right and drop down.

This time drop down more and enter the cave.  Proceed through the connecting
path, drop down some more and stay on the right side of the screen.  When you've
reached the bottom, near the exit below, consider placing the Save Point here.
It's approximately at the middle of the Northern Crater, so you can go anywhere
from here.  Alternatively, place the Save Point at the bottom of the crater.
Whatever you do, don't place it at the next intersection.  People have reported
that they weren't able to climb out of the crater anymore because of placing
the Save Point in that screen.

Tip: You'll need to split up your party at this point, and depending on who
     you send which direction you can get duplicate copies of very rare items.
     Follow these instructions carefully:

<Perfect Game Note 29:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Depending on what type of Perfect Game you're doing - with or without the
extended W-Item trick - you'll need to send your party members down in different
manners:

o Perfect Game Without extended W-Item trick:
  ===========================================
  - This requires you to get a duplicate of the Mystile, Imperial Guard,
    the Shield Materia and the (Command) Counter Materia. The following
    instructions yield this result:

    Cloud: Left/Down
    Barret: Left/Up
    Tifa: Right
    Red XIII: Left/Up
    Cait Sith: Left/Down
    Yuffie: Left/Up
    Vincent: Left/Down
    Cid: Left/Up
    
  - Now take Cloud down through the lowest path on the screen.

o Perfect Game WITH extended W-Item trick:
  ========================================
  - This does NOT require you to get duplicates of the Mystile and Imperial
    Guard, since you can duplicate these with the extended W-Item trick.
    As such, you'll need duplicates of the Shield Materia, the (Command) Counter
    Materia, AND the Mega All Materia. There are specific instructions to do
    this, which differ from the above.

  - The reason why the instructions for this combination of treasure are
    different is because once you send Cloud down the right path (which we are
    required to do in this scenario), all party members who are sent down the
    left path have a 50/50 chance to give one of the two possible items they
    can give you. This means you could either try several times and get lucky,
    (the chance is 12.5%) or carefully follow the instructions below:

  - First of all, send Cloud right, and send Red XIII, Yuffie, and Vincent
    left.  It doesn't matter which way you send any other party members.
  
  - Head down to the bottom of the crater (where the paths intersect). Don't
    meet up with the rest of the gang; instead, backtrack through the 2 o'clock
    exit and collect all items on both unexplored paths (including Mega-All,
    Shield, and Counter).
    
  - Head back to the Highwind after this. Save your game, and do a hard reset.
    Now load your game and head back to the crater.
    
  - This part is slightly more tricky. When you pass through the spiral descent
    field (the one where you found the Save Crystal) make sure you RUN with
    Cloud (don't walk), don't get stuck, don't stop to open chests, and don't
    take the longest route (in other words, don't hug the wall and get down
    ASAP). [All of this is necessary to get a specific "random" result.]
    
  - At the field where your party initially split, take the RIGHT path.
  
  - At the bottom of the crater (where the paths merge), do the following:
    Enter and instantly exit the 2 o'clock path SIX times.
    
  - That's it! You can now meet up with your teammates at the rendezvous.
    The items you receive should be:
    
    Barret: Remedy
    Tifa: Hero Drink
    Red XIII: Shield Materia
    Yuffie: Counter Materia
    Cait Sith: Remedy
    Vincent: Mega-All Materia
    Cid: Elixir
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Note: In the 2012 PC version, if you place the Save Crystal at the first screen
      after going down from the main intersection (where you'll reach the
      second intersection), the name of this room will change to 'Secret Cow
      Level'. If you save your game, this is also displayed on your save file.
      Exiting/re-entering the room will reset the name.
      
      Important: Don't use the Save Crystal just yet if you want to exploit it
                 for certain Materia duplication.

This guide assumes you're going down the Left-Down path first. You may (or may
not) have a weak party right now, so be extra careful. It can be wise to equip
Vincent and Cait Sith with the Ziedrich, if you never used them often. This
armor will cut down most damage in half, plus raises defense by a great deal. To
further boost defense you could also give them a Tough Ring.

Head down the steps and collect a Remedy from the chest on the left.  The next
chest contains an Elixir, and the third chest in this area contains an X-Potion.
Inside the next screen, follow the path until you get to jump down twice.

If you jump off from the left, just make sure to grab the items from the chests.
The nearby one contains a Turbo Ether.  Head right to collect a Vaccine on the
way.  Make sure you collect the Magic Counter Materia from the Mako stream to
the very left.

Note: On the next screen, if you haven't used the Save Crystal yet, you can
      take advantage of a glitch that allows you to use the Save Crystal to
      create a Save Point, while still keeping the actual Save Crystal item.

In the next screen, jump down to grab the X-Potion from the chest. Follow the
fairly linear path down until you get to the second chest that holds a Turbo
Ether. From here, continue left. Cloud will double jump over to the next
platform, so in order to collect the Mega All Materia, tap Circle repeatedly
during the jump.  The chest on the left contains a Speed Source.  Jump down and
exit the screen.  This next screen is the bottom of the Northern Crater.  Do NOT
go anywhere except the way you just came from (if you care about duplicating
several treasures in the Crater - otherwise just finish the game).

Backtrack all the way you came until you are at the screen where your party
members split up.  Go down the right path, which is the path you sent Tifa down.

<Perfect Game Note 30:>
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
It's wise to equip one character (for example Cloud) with all 4 Enemy Skill
Materia during this part. You could encounter a Dragon Zombie, which uses the
Enemy Skill 'Pandora's Box' as a Final Attack. However, once it uses this Final
Attack, no other Dragon Zombies will ever perform this attack again due to a
certain variable. If you have all Enemy Skill Materias on Cloud, all the Materia
will get the skill at once. After that you'll never have to worry about missing
any enemy skill again as all others can still be gotten (unless you already
missed Trine from Godo).
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Walk down the spiral path and climb down at the end. Grab the Mystile armor from
the chest, and the Elixir on the ground.  Head down the last spiral to the next
screen.  The chest on the right contains a Tetra Elemental and the other chest
on the left contains a Speed Source.  The very left part of the screen contains
a chest with a Megalixir, as does the last chest of this area.

Exit the screen by the north and walk down the large skeleton.  When you reach
the bottom of the crater, once again do *not* proceed to the center, but
backtrack through the path that you first took, in other words go through the
exit closest by.  When you've backtracked to the screen where the 'left path'
splits up into an upper and lower path, choose the upper path.

This swampy area is roaming with strange creatures, many of which grant a lot
of AP when defeated, such as Magic Pots and Movers.  Follow the lower path
to reach a chest containing a Magic Source, then proceed over the upper path
to make Cloud run through the water.  Collect a Remedy from the other chest and
exit the screen.

Take the upper path first and collect the green Shield Materia.  From this spot,
walk more down to the left and Cloud will go through the water again, reaching
the chest with an Imperial Guard.  Note that going south from this chest will
lead to the right side of the area.  The other chest on the upper left contains
a Vaccine.  Walk all the way right to collect a Hero Drink, then exit the area.

The next room houses the Counter Materia in the middle.  Note that this is not
the same as the 'Counter attack' Materia.  This Counter Materia is a support
Materia which will counter with any paired command (yellow) materia.  There's
one other Materia in this area, however, and it's slightly difficult to spot.
Explore the very far north area and look around for a very tiny orb to collect
the W-Magic Materia.

You're now back at the bottom of the crater, and you're free to do however you
please.  Collect the Luck Source from the chest and meet up with your party
members at the center.  If you followed the instructions you should get the
following duplicate items from them:

Tifa: 'Mythril' (This is actually a Mystile)
Cid: Imperial Guard
Barret: Vaccine
Red XIII: Shield Materia
Yuffie: (Command) Counter Materia

                 Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                 ||   {40} Doing the last optional things    ||        CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:| Limited Moon, Omnislash, W-Summon, Ultimate Weapon,             ||
||          | Final Attack Materia, Ribbon.                                   ||
||----------|                                                                 ||
||          | (Other treasures are listed under their own sections)           ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

There are plenty of optional things to do, so here's a small list of optional
things you can do, provided you haven't done some of them already.

o You can breed and race chocobos. Many rare items can be acquired by winning
  Chocobo Races and exploring the four Materia Caves on the world map. Refer to
  sections {M1.4} & {M2}.

o You can get Red XIII's Ultimate Weapon Limited Moon from Bugenhagen. The
  backroom of the Item Shop is also explorable if you hadn't already looted it.

o Ultimate WEAPON has spawned above the crater lake nearby Junon after you
  defeated Diamond WEAPON. After each battle it will always first spawn above
  lake Junon (but it'll immediately start moving, so quickly move there), after
  which you'll have to ram into it several times to force it to another fixed
  point where it can be fought.

o The Ancient Forest can be visited (either after defeating Ultimate WEAPON or
  by breeding a mountain chocobo).

o A hidden scene can be viewed by revisiting the library in the basement of the
  Shinra Building at Nibelheim.

o The Special Battle at the Gold Saucer's Battle Square can be attempted after:
  1. Collecting and learning Omnislash with Cloud.
  2. Collecting Ultimate Weapon by defeating Ultimate WEAPON.
  3. Collecting the W-Summon Materia from the prize list.

  If you win the special battle, which can only be fought with Cloud, you'll
  receive the Final Attack Materia.  Winning the special battle 10 times nets
  you a Ribbon.

o Emerald WEAPON can be fought against, although this battle requires thorough
  preparations.  Ruby WEAPON spawns in the sands around the Gold Saucer after
  defeating Ultimate WEAPON and fighting one random battle after that.
  Beating these two creatures also allows you to complete the Kalm Traveller's
  Quest.

o There are more things to do, but the above are most profound.

                 Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-oO
                 ||  {41} The Final Fights of this Fantasy   ||        CHECKLIST
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-Oo-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=oO=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO
|| Treasure:| ---                                                             ||
Oo*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*oO

It helps to equip your main party members with Ribbons.  If you don't have three
Ribbons, morph a Master Tonberry into one, or if you want to go out of the
crater, morph a Ho-Chu at the special battle of the Gold Saucer's Battle Square,
second battle.

When you're absolutely sure you're ready to finish the game, speak with your
party members and move out.

You'll have to jump from stone to stone, often facing Dragon Zombie and Iron Man
enemies.  Both are far stronger than regular enemies and serve as semi-bosses,
but the Dragon Zombie is an undead creature and can easily be disposed of with
White Wind or healing items.  Iron Man is weak against water, so Aqualung is an
effective attack to use against them.  Big Guard will greatly help reduce damage
from their powerful swipes.  Iron Man morphs into an Escort Guard.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The exact mechanics of encounters while jumping from platform to platform are as
follows:

Every time you hop to a new platform, you have a 76/256 (29.69%) chance of
being attacked.  If you are attacked, the enemy will be one of the following:

                 1x Allemagne:        26/256 (10.2%) chance
                 1x Iron Man:        128/256 (50.0%) chance
                 1x Dragon Zombie:   102/256 (39.8%) chance

The first screen has 5 jumps and the second screen has 8 jumps.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

At the bottom center of the area, the team faces Jenova SYNTHESIS.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Jenova*SYNTHESIS (Level 61)         |Nullifies: Earth, Gravity          |
|HP: 60000 (10000 & 8000 for the Arms)     |Absorbs: Poison                    |
|MP: 600                                   |-----------------------------------|
|Exp: 60000                                |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|AP: 500                                   |Darkness                           |
|Gil: 0                                    |                                   |
|Drops: ---                                |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                |                                   |
|Morph: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: Absorb [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, 1357.5 Base Damage, Can inflict Sadness];  |
|Repeating Slap [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 2325 Base Damage, Can inflict Fury]; Bio2  |
|[1/All Enemies, Mag Atk, Cost=36MP, Poison Element, 1425.375 Base Damage, Can |
|inflict Poison]; Cure3 [1 Ally, Mag Atk, 3946 Base Healing]; Stop [1 Enemy,   |
|Mag Atk, Cost=34MP, Can inflict Stop]; Ultima [All Enemies, Mag Atk,          |
|Cost=130MP, 7126.875 Base Damage, Used only after countdown]; Right Hand      |
|Revived Revives Right Arm]; Left Hand Revived [Revives Left Arm]              |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: This battle is surprisingly easy and Jenova's attacks are all       |
|fairly weak with the exception of Ultima, which requires her to countdown and |
|wait five turns.                                                              |
|                                                                              |
|A casting of Knights of Round will obliterate Jenova, but also has a large    |
|effect on Sephiroth's HP in the upcoming battles. If Jenova manages to cast   |
|Ultima, no experience is rewarded.  Attacking her with Double or 4x Cut is    |
|a very effective method, but powerful enemy skills and summons will do        |
|equally fine.                                                                 |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

The team floats down the very bottom of the crater, where Sephiroth resides.
You're now given the option to re-equip your party members.

It's advisable to give your main party the best equipment you have, even if the
upcoming battle has you fighting with more than one party.  If that's the case,
simply ignore the other parties and continue to fight with your main party.
The best armor and accessory are respectively the Mystile and Ribbon.

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Bizarro*Sephiroth (Level 61)        |Nullifies: Gravity                 |
|HP: See specifics                         |-----------------------------------|
|MP: 400                                   |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Exp: 0                                    |Darkness                           |
|AP: 0                                     |                                   |
|Gil: 0                                    |                                   |
|Drops: ---                                |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                |                                   |
|Morph: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks:                                                                      |
|Sephiroth Shock [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 2131.25];                                 |
|Aurora Fence [All Enemies, Mag Atk, 1252 Healing, Removes all status effects];|
|Bolt3  [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=52MP, Lightning Element, 4920 Base Damage];    |
|Quake3 [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=68MP, Earth Element, 5381.25 Base Damage];     |
|Stigma [All Enemies, Mag Atk, 2152.5 Base Damage, Causes 100% Poison & Slow]; |
|Heartless Angel [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, Damage = (Target's HP-1)];                |
|Ice3  [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=52MP, Ice Element, 4920 Base Damage];           |
|Fire3 [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Fire Element, 4920 Base Damage];                     |
|Demi3 [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=48MP, Gravity Element, Damage = HP * 3/4];      |
|Bizarro Enegy [1 Ally, Mag Atk, 6744 Base Healing]                            |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Bizarro Sephiroth's HP varies depending on various factors:                   |
|                                                                              |
|Main Body's Max HP = 40000 +  5000 * No. of Characters at L99                 |
|                   + 60000 if Knights of Round was used on Jenova*SYNTHESIS   |
|Head's Max HP      =  2000 +   250 * No. of Characters at L99                 |
|Core's Max HP      = 10000 +  1250 * No. of Characters at L99                 |
|Right Mgc's Max HP =  4000 +   500 * No. of Characters at L99                 |
|Left Mgc's Max HP  =  4000 +   500 * No. of Characters at L99                 |
|                                                                              |
|Note: Aeris does not count while calculating the above.                       |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Various factors determine with how many parties you will face Bizarro         |
|Sephiroth.  These are explained in detail below:                              |
|                                                                              |
|One Party:  You'll fight with one party if ANY one of the below statements    |
|----------  is true.                                                          |
|                                                                              |
|1. Jenova Synthesis achieved 13 or more turns before starting the countdown   |
|   for Ultima.  When Jenova couldn't do anything due to an arm being dead,    |
|   this still counts as a turn.  The first turn when Jenova begins the        |
|   countdown does not count.                                                  |
|                                                                              |
|2. Lowest levelled party member is Level 34 or below.                         |
|                                                                              |
|3. The average party level is 53 or less.  Aeris' level doesn't count, and if |
|   you didn't get Yuffie or Vincent then their level is not included either.  |
|   The average party level is the sum of all your party members levels,       |
|   divided by the number of party members, rounded down.                      |
|                                                                              |
|Two Parties: Don't qualify for fighting with one party, and ANY one of the    |
|------------ below statements is true.                                        |
|                                                                              |
|1. You are missing either Yuffie, Vincent, or both.                           |
|                                                                              |
|2. Your lowest levelled party member is between Level 35 and 44 inclusive.    |
|                                                                              |
|3. Your average party level is between 54 and 67 inclusive.                   |
|                                                                              |
|Three Parties: Fail to qualify for fighting with one or two parties.          |
|-------------- See below for the requirements.                                |
|                                                                              |
|1. Have both Yuffie and Vincent recruited in your party.                      |
|                                                                              |
|2. Jenova Synthesis achieved 12 or less turns before counting down Ultima.    |
|                                                                              |
|3. The lowest levelled character is Level 45 or higher.                       |
|                                                                              |
|4. The average party level is 68 or higher.                                   |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: While there are various strategies possible, based on how many      |
|parties you use when fighting Sephiroth, the easiest is by far to simply use  |
|your main party and inflict as much damage as possible in a short period.     |
|                                                                              |
|The idea is normally to destroy the Core (Bizarro*Sephiroth C), which heals   |
|the Main Body (A) every turn for about 6500.  The Core is invulnerable until  |
|Right and Left Magic (D and E) have been destroyed.  When you fight with two  |
|parties you'll need to destroy two sides of the core and when you fight with  |
|three parties you must destroy three parts of the core.  To view the names of |
|all different, press [SELECT] to bring up th help bar.                        |
|                                                                              |
|It's advisable to outdamage the Main Body and ignore the healing Core         |
|completely by using Knights of Round, Bahamut, Double or 4x Cut, Comet 2 and  |
|everything else that hits Sephiroth hard.  Big Guard takes care of your       |
|defense, while effective castings of White Wind should keep your party's HP   |
|high.                                                                         |
|                                                                              |
|The next fight starts immediately after this one.                             |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
|Name: Safer Sephiroth (Level 87)          |Nullifies: Earth, Gravity          |
|HP: 80000                                 |-----------------------------------|
|MP: 680 (cannot be depleted)              |Status Effect Weaknesses:          |
|Exp: 0                                    |Slow, Darkness                     |
|AP: 0                                     |                                   |
|Gil: 0                                    |                                   |
|Drops: ---                                |                                   |
|Steal: ---                                |                                   |
|Morph: ---                                '-----------------------------------|
|Attacks: (Base Damages are for Safer Sephiroth at Maximum Power)              |
|                                                                              |
|Wing Slash [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, 10389 Base Damage, Causes 100% Paralysed &     |
|Darkness]; Deen [All Enemies, Mag Atk, 2128.125 Base Damage]; Wall [1 Ally,   |
|Mag Atk, Cost=58MP, Causes 100% Barrier + MBarrier]; Pale Horse [1 Enemy, Mag |
|Atk, 2979.375 Base Damage, Causes 100% Sadness, Frog, Small]; Shadow Flare [1 |
|Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=100MP, 10640.625 Base Damage]; DeSpell [1/All Enemies,   |
|Mag Atk, Cost=20MP, Despells]; Heartless Angel [1 Enemy, Phys Atk, Damage =   |
|(Target's HP-1)]; Break [1 Enemy, Mag Atk, Cost=86MP, Earth Element, 8512.5   |
|Base Damage, Can inflict Petrify]; Super Nova [All Enemies, Mag Atk,          |
|Damage = Target's HP * 15/16, Can inflict Confusion, Silence, Slow]           |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|   +30,000 Max HP, 2 Att, 20 Def, 5 MAt, 16 MDf per character at L99          |
|   +80,000 Max HP if you cast Knights of Round on Jenova*SYNTHESIS            |
|                                                                              |
|   For each time you killed Bizarro Sephiroth's head, Safer Sephiroth's HP    |
|   will be 100 lower than his Max HP, for a maximum of 24900 lower.           |
|                                                                              |
|   At maximum power, Safer*Sephiroth will have:                               |
|   400,000 Max HP, 246 Att, 260 Def, 140 MAt, 308 MDf                         |
|                                                                              |
|Note: Aeris does not count while calculating the above.                       |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Strategy: The fight against Safer Sephiroth counts as the final battle of     |
|Final Fantasy VII.  This means you can give it all you've got, there is no    |
|reason to conserve that Megalixir you stored away for ages.  Use everything   |
|available in your arsenal to win this battle.                                 |
|                                                                              |
|Sephiroth always starts the battle with Wall.  A De-spell will effectively    |
|counter this, and a casting of Big Guard on your party turns the tables.      |
|Casting Slow on Safer Sephiroth in the early going is a decent idea as well.  |
|If your characters have Ribbons equipped, Sephiroth's large amount of bad     |
|status effects will no longer negatively affect the battle.  Otherwise,       |
|prepare to cast White Wind a large number of times to effectively heal and    |
|clean your party of negative statuses.                                        |
|                                                                              |
|Sephiroth eventually casts his ultimate attack, Supernova, which cannot       |
|actually kill you since it deals 15/16th damage of your current HP.  It       |
|normally inflicts confusion, silence and slow as well, although Ribbons       |
|counter this.  A Megalixir is the perfect cure against Supernova.             |
|                                                                              |
|To damage Sephiroth, use powerful summons and physical attacks, but keep in   |
|mind that when Sephiroth has ascended, characters without the long range      |
|ability won't be able to hit him.  Coin also works wonders, especially since  |
|you can throw as much at him as you'd like.  If you really want to mop the    |
|floor with Sephiroth, a few castings of Knights of Round will easily do him   |
|in.                                                                           |
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------'

After destroying Safer Sephiroth, the game will confront Cloud with one final
battle which cannot be lost.  The only attack available to Sephiroth is an
attack that inflicts 31/32nd damage of Cloud's HP (after which Cloud will
automatically counterattack with a physical attack).

